WEIRD TALES

The Unique Magazine
Vol. 2 · No. 2 · September 1923
Edwin Baird, Editor

       *       *       *       *       *

Contents:
- The People of the Comet — Austin Hall
- Short Stories of Fantasy, Terror and Weird Fiction

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PEOPLE OF THE COMET
By Austin Hall

Chapter I 


“He turned to the globe and put his 
finger on the spot that I had called 
Greenland. 

‘“If you will look at this globe 
you will observe that there is a great 
deal of land in the North. The conti¬ 
nent which you have called Greenland 
reaches close to the Pole itself; and in 
my day extended to and beyond the Pole 
as far south as the seventieth degree, 
and was fringed on the opposite side by 
a number of islands, of which this,’ he 
pointed to Nova Zembla, ‘might have 
been one. Still farther south were the 
great continents, the torrid lands of the 
south, teeeming with terrible life, pesti¬ 
lence, steaming heat, and sudden death- 
regions which we could circle, but which 
we could penetrate only at the penalty 
of certain destruction. All our life was 
clustered about the Pole. 

“ ‘This was due to a very simple fact 
of planetary evolution. The Earth, when 
it cooled, allowed life at the poles be¬ 
fore anywhere else; when the rest of 
the Earth was a swirl of steam, when the 
crust of the equator was a mass of fire, 
the temperature of the poles, alone, was 
of sufficient coolness to allow the begin¬ 
nings of life. 

“ ‘We know that the first life upon 
the Earth was about the poles. We know 
also, that, before the beginning of life, 
the Earth was a ball of fire. It is a part 
of the solar system, and much like the 
sun about which it rotates. We know that 
uncounted ages must have elapsed before 
the planet had cooled sufficiently to al¬ 
low the hot vapors to condense and set¬ 
tle into the hollows to form the oceans. 
In the first ages the whole Earth must 
have been surrounded and enveloped by 
an immense pall of vapor through which 
the sun could not penetrate, and under 
which the Earth lay swaddled for cons, 
warmed by its own heat and entirely in¬ 
dependent of anything external. In the 
first ages, then, the poles were much like 
the equator. There was no sun—only 
a half light, and moisture dripping never 
ceasingly from the everlasting clouds. 
It was an age of mushroom-like vegeta¬ 
tion ; but of very little animal life. 

“ ‘Then came the sun. 

“ ‘The pall of vapor broke and de¬ 
scended into the seas; and life began to 
appear and to roam over the face of the 
Earth. And when the sun first broke 
through, it was not a question of how 
much heat; but of how little. Naturally, 
the first place where life was possible 

“ ‘Thus we accounted for the begin- 

“ ‘I understand,’ I answered, ‘most of 
our astronomers accept it even today. 


Life was certainly possible at the Poles 
before anywhere else. But 1 don’t recall 
any scholar ever suggesting that we look 
there for the origin of Man.’ 

“ ‘Why not? Surely you have traced 
him from the north?’ 

“ ‘Come to think of it, we have. Tell 
me what you know. Whence came your 

“But he shook his head. 

“ ‘That I cannot tell. I am aa ignorant 
of the origin of our Man as you are of 
yours. You say that your beginnings are 
shrouded in mystery and obscurity. So 
are ours. Only, while you may trace 
yourselves back to the Sansars, we can 
look back only into the mists of the be¬ 
ginning,’ 

“ ‘How long had you a record of your 
Man?’ I asked. 

“ ‘Millions of years.’ 

“ ‘And your civilization?’ 

“ ‘Several hundred thousand years. I 
think our civilization was much older 
than yours. Though we had no record 
of Man in the beginning, we had, never¬ 
theless, a written chronicle that rah back 
many thousands of years.’ 

“ ‘And you say that all this was in the 
past—millions of years ago—that you 
are millions of years of age—and that 
the Caucasian’ races of today are yonr 
descendants ?’ 

“‘Iam sure of it. You speak the San- 
sar language, and that is proof of the 
relation. If you live here’—he pointed 
to California—‘yon must be living on an 
Earth where the Poles are frozen; and 
that alone ia a proof of the Time. We 
have been away for millions of years— 
though to us it seems but a number of 
days. Sora here,’ he pointed to the girl, 
‘does not understand; but I can explain. 
Let me look at the globe.’ 

“He spun the sphere upon its axis; 
then he stopped it and traced his finger 
over the North of Greenland. He shook 
his head. 

“ ‘Some Of this is familiar; but not 
all. The city of the Sansars should bo 
here, very close to the pole. You have 
it down as sea. Farther south, whore 
you have these islands, were the observa¬ 
tories, close to the Magnetic Pole. The 
first observatoty was at the Pole itself. 
The city of Sansar was a metropolis of a 
million inhabitants. All this,’ he made 
a sweep over the Arctic—'‘was rich and 
inhabitable, a prosperous country teem¬ 
ing with resource. But here,’ he point¬ 
ed to the North tip of North America, 
‘we could not go. It was too hot—.’ 

“ ‘You mean, then, that in this age of 
which yon are speaking, the Earth was 
cooled off only about the poles, and that 
what we call North America was too hot 
for human habitation?’ 


‘“Exactly. We lived about the pole. 
There were a few, our Wise Men, for in¬ 
stance, who calculated against the fu¬ 
ture, when the cold would encroach, and 
we would have to move to the southward; 
but the average man considered it not. 
There were some, super-wise, who pre¬ 
dicted that the time would come in the 
eons of the future, when the whole world 
would freeze up entirely, and life be 

“I nodded at this. 

“ ‘That is so,’ I said. ‘We have proof 
of that in the moon. There is no life 
upon the moon. And aa>the moon has 
gone so must go the Earth.’ 

“ ‘Yes. That ia where we got our 
proof of the future. But in our day 
the moon was inhabited.’ 

“ ‘Inhabited? Then your civilization 
most have been greater than ours of 
today. How would you know! Had 

“ ‘Yea. But that ia a long story. We 
discovered its life and civilization 
through an accident of our wireless, 
which I do not care to relate now. I 
shall only say that there was not only 
life, but a great civilization upon the 
moon, and that the satellite was in the 
last stages of active planetary evolution;. 
and had eome to the point where life' 
was possible only about the equator: 
Therefore, when you say that yon are 
living here, in what you call California, 
I know that I have been gone a great 
length of time. It would take millions 
of years for the Earth to cool off suffi¬ 
ciently to permit life this far south. My 
people of Sansar are dead, the Northern 
Pole ia frozen, and I return to the Earth 

“I could but listen. Was it possible 
that there had been life, even civiliza¬ 
tion, upon the moon? Could it he that 
this man, coming out of mystery, wonld 
unriddle the past? Who of us has ever 
gazed at the moon, without speculating 
over its history, without considering 
what it might have been when it was a 
whirring planet, alive and atmospheric! 
Surely, it was not impossible that there 
had been life, even civilization! 

“I recalled, further, that, although all 

out of the highlands of upper Asia, there 
is not, for all that, one man of the orig¬ 
inal stock left there today; and there is 
no one, even among the greatest scholars, 
who can give a satisfactory auswer to the 
riddle of the Aryans. Like bees, they 
have swarmed; out of the original hive 
in the uplands of Asia. Iberians, Greeks, 
Latins, Celts, Goths, Hindoos, Persians, 
Scandinavians, Germans, Slavs—each 
swarm sweeping und crowding its pre- 


mm* 


7 his Story Will Be Concluded in the Next Issue of WEIRD TALES. The Final 
Chapters Bristle With Strange Experiences Even More Engrossing 
Than Those in This First Installment. Don't Miss 
the Next WEIRD TALES. 


An Odd Little Tale 

By the Author of (, The Well” 

THE BLACK PATCH 


By JULIAN KILMAN 


Stark Tragedy Awaited the Hero of This 
Story When He Investigated the 
Weird Philosophy of the Orient 

The Soul of Peter Andrus 


By HUBERT LA DUE 


Here *s a Story Based on a Subject of Wide 
Human Appeal and Containing 
a Horrifying Climax 


The Case of Dr. Johnstone 


By BURTON PETER THOM 


THE CASE OP DR. JOHNSTONE 


the soul exists, but that it exists also as 
a tangible entity.” 

I said no more; lor, after all, why 
should I? The experiment was eminent¬ 
ly proper. The phenomena of telepathy, 
apparitions of the living and dead, mes¬ 
sages from discamate intelligences are 
being constantly investigated; why 
should not a scientist of the first class 
investigate this profound and vital prob¬ 
lem, the enigma of enigmas, from the 
standpoint of those sciences which have 
most to do with the manifestations of life 
and death—biology and physiology? 

An investigation carried to a success¬ 
ful issue along these lines would do more 
to convince the skeptical than any 
amount of the so called “evidence” off¬ 
ered by spiritualistic investigators. 


scribed by the great father of medicine 
long ago. 

It was as if the vital organs—the heart 
and lungs—no longer functioned and the 
glow of life was gone. This phase lasted 
exactly one minute and twenty-two sec¬ 
onds, for I timed it with my watch. Then 
the heart of each began to beat again: 
slowly and feebly at first, but the force 
and number of the beats increased with 
each passing seeond. 

They began to breathe. They lived; 
although unconscious. For awhile they 
seemed to sleep; to sleep with that pro¬ 
foundness that is observed only in chil¬ 
dren or the aged, or in those who are 
utterly exhausted by physical exertion. 
This second phase lasted for a few sec- 


in hand. At Dr. Johnstone’s direction, 
I shaved the nape of the animal’s neck 
and also a tonsure-shaped area on the 
top of the head. I then adjusted a cap¬ 
shaped electrode that was held in place 
by tapes tied firmly under the chin. It 
was not necessary to shave the man, aa 
he was sufficiently bald to allow a simi¬ 
lar electrode to be fitted without the hair 
interfering with the contact. 

He then had me fasten his legs and 
arms with leather straps attached to the 
table on which he lay; the beast was not 
restrained. I then connected the two 
electrodes by incans of a non-insnlated 
wire of some metallic substance having 
a peculiar luminous lustre—radio active 
I would say—and very cold to the touch. 

I also attached to the posts of the bat¬ 
tery two longer wires of the same ma¬ 
terial, one each from the two electrodes, 
thus completing the circuit. The bat¬ 
tery, if I may call it such, for I do not 
know whether it generated electricity or 


Then came another change. A change 
that was subtle and terrible to see. It 
was as if life was coming back, but in 
each it was a different life and this dif¬ 
ference was indelibly stamped upon their 
features. The countenance of the ape 
shone with a light that was new and 
strange; the countenance of the man was 
transformed by a look that was not hu¬ 
man. I was awed; for what I saw was 

bdhdi * 

The ape turned his eyes toward me. 
The cavernous mouth opened, the black 
snout grimaced, in husky, guttural tones 
came the words, “Where am It” 

I did not answer; I simply stared at 
him. The beast sat up and stretched his 
arms, and then clambered to the fioor 
and shambled toward me. I stepped 
back—I conld not help it. 

“Don’t be afraid. It’s only I—John¬ 
stone.” The wrinkled face broke into a 
hideous smile. “Help me to unloose the 


cause the units of which it was composed 
were encased in a wooden box. It was 
placed on a small stand between the two 
glass-topped tables on which the man and 
beast reclined. 

“All setl” I exclaimed. 

“Turn on the switch.” 

I did so. There was a slight crack¬ 
ling noise, not unlike that made by a 
D’Arsonval current, and instantly both 
bodies became rigid. The respiratory 
movements ceased, as well as the apex 
beat of the heart. The eyes remained 
open and stony and staring, with the 
pupils widely dilated. On the face of 
the man and on that, of the beast there 
seemed to come the change of death. 
Their features became pinched and sank 
in, the lipB livid and drawn tight over 
the teeth. Theirs was the fames Hippo- 
cratica, the sure harbinger of death, de- 


The man by this time was tagging at 
the straps in an endeavor to get free. 
As I unbuckled the strap that held his 
shoulders down, he tried to bite me. 

“Stop that!” croaked the ape, and he 
struck the man a sharp blow in the face. 
He cowered from the blow and made an 
angry grimace, and when the leg straps 
were unloosed sprang to the floor with 
a wild yell and began capering about the 
room with body bent and hanging arms 
—like an ape. If it were not horrible, 
it would have seemed grotesque, but as 
it was it sickened me. 

The beast clutched me by the arm, and 
in a voice that trembled with emotion, 
hoarse and raucous though it was, said, 
“Seel his soul is in my body and my 
soul is in his body. I have proved that 
the soul exists—that there is an ego in 
all living things.” 


I N SILENCE we stood and watched 
the bestial thing, and it came home 
to me how much the body reflects the 
soul within. Round and round the room 
it ran; peering, muttering, fingering, 
smelling. Suddenly it approached and 
Stopped at the table where the battery 
stood. 

With a cry of alarm, the one at my 
side leaped forward to drive it away. 
But it was too late. As the beast leaped, 
the man swept the apparatus to the floor. 
It fell with a crash. From the broken 
jars a fuming, greenish vapor arose that 
filled the room with a pungent, acrid 
odor. The wires gave off faint, red 
lights and turned to white, ashlike 

The ape gripped him. The man yelled 
and bit and struggled. The body of 
Johnstone was that of a powerful man 
in the prime of life and he put up a 
fierce fight. Over and over they rolled, 
upsetting chairs and tables, now the man, 
now the beast, on top. Slowly but sure¬ 
ly, the animal strength overcame that of 
the human. The man was down and the 
beast was on top. 

In vain the man’s fists beat the broad, 
black face and tore at the hairy chest. 
The short, thick fingers clutched his 
throat tighter and tighter, his face 
turned blue and his tongue stuck out to 
a sickening length, and his eyes seemed 
as if they were bursting from their sock- 

I watched the fearful struggle without 
attempting to interfere, because it was 
impossible to do so. It was not like a 
fight between man and man but a fight 
between two beasts. I was fascinated 
by it, but when I realized that the man 
was dying—that the beast was choking 
him to death, I came to myself. 

“Stop it! for God’s sake stop it!” I 
cried, “You’re killing him—you’re kill¬ 
ing yourself!” and I grasped the ape 
by the shoulder and tried to pull him 
off. 


“Let go of him 1 ” He understood and 
relaxed his hold and stood up. The man 
still breathed feebly. 

“What is the matter with you?” I 
asked with heat. "If you kill him, how 
can you return to your own body?” 

The ape turned and looked at me. 

“Yes,” he groaned, “I know; but he 
has broken the bridge over which we 
must pass to enter into our own.” 

“What!” I cried. “Do you mean to 
tell me that you can’t go back? Csn’t 
the apparatus be repaired 1 We can 
keep this, ” and I pointed to the prostrate 
form on the floor, “locked up until I can 
get what you need.” 

(Continued on page 90) 


THE DEAD-NAMING OF 
LUKAPEHU 


rjpHi 


[E following tale was handed to 
script by an ae- 
i whom it was re¬ 
lated by a friend who heard it from an 

happening to his father. In view of the 
father’s integrity, and bearing in mind 
other similar cases, there is, of course, no 
dodbt as to the truth of the story. 
Whether Lukapehu died of an “error of 
mortal judgment,” of the incantations 
of the old medicine man, or of super¬ 
stitious fear, is for the reader to judge 
for himself. 

The title Kahuna means sorcerer. 
Kahuna-anana is a specific title for a 
death-dealing sorcerer, from Kahuna a 
sorcerer; and anana, to gaze intently. 
The epithet suggests that ancient belief 
in the evil eye, so naively preserved in 
the Scottish ballads, and particularly 
common in Italy and India. The story 
is recorded here substantially as it came 
into my possession. 

In 1859, my father had already es¬ 
tablished himself on a large plantation 
on Kawai, one of the Hawaiian group. 
He acquired among his “boys” a repu¬ 
tation for utter fearlessness and, to an 
astonishing degree, for foolhardy disre¬ 
gard of the various powers of enchants 
ment. There dwelt also on Kawai, where 
the two branches of the Waimea River 
join, a famous old Kahuna, Kapukapu, 
who far surpassed his fellow sorcerers 
in skill, being reputed a Kahuna-anana 
or death-dealing sorcerer. So great was 
the reputation of this magician that 
never did any of the villagers presume 
to oppose his wishes; but often they 
complained bitterly to my father of 
Kapukapu's unjust demands for food 
and service, exacted under threats of 
fearful and certain calamity. My father 
pooh-poohed these tales, particularly to 
a certain one of his boys, Lukapehu, his 
most skillful fisherman, exhorting him 
to have no fear of the old man but to 
face him boldly and laugh his threats 


/ evening in the year I have men- 
^ tioned, Lukapehu came up the 
valley as the sun was setting, carrying 
in his net the day’s catch, which had 
been large even for him. He was a tall. 


By P. D. GOG 


fluous physical strength and primitive 
irresponsibility. Perhaps his savage 
heart was touched by the glory of the 
sunset, which was reflected from the 
palms and tropic ferns in a golden 
aura; perhaps he was thinking of the 
wife and the naked little bambino who 
would greet him at his hut and rejoice 
with him in the silver treasure his skill 
had wrested from the sea; for os he 
strode up the deep valley of the Waimea 
River, he sang a plaintive melody that 
mingled with the twilight like the 
lengthening shadows, faint, elusive. 

Suddenly the song ceased and an un¬ 
canny silence pervaded the ravine, save 
for the swish of the river and the 
twitter of restless birds in the koa trees. 
Lukapehu had reached the branching 
tributaries where Kapukapu dwelt. 
Silhouetted against the fiery sun, stood 
the old sorcerer, tall, gaunt, leaning 
upon his staff and gazing intently down 
the valley. Clothed only in a ragged 
loin cloth, his long, unkempt hair brush¬ 
ing his shoulders, his thin, gray beard 
stirring in the evening breeze, his eyes 
bulging like fire brands from his cadav¬ 
erous skull, he looked like the animated 
skeleton of a fiend. When he saw the 
fisherman with his burden, he crossed 
the stream and stopped Lukapehu. 

“My son,” he said, “I see how great 
has been your success. When a young 
man has so much it is well for him to 
share with an old man.” 

Lukapehu, fortified by my father’s 
example, replied boldly, “It is well also, 
sometimes, for an old man to mind his 


T> RUSHING past the gaunt Kapukapu, 
he continued up the valley, ignor¬ 
ing the calling of his name by the en¬ 
raged sorcerer. But presently he heard 
the Kahuna chanting over strange, 

tensity and resonance as the voice went 

of vowels, the Kahuna had raised the 
echoes of the valley and the wood with 
his reverberant chant, “Lukapehu shall 
die! Lukapehu shall die!” 


Lukapehu’s heart sank. He tried to 
reassure himself with the recollection of 
my father’s words, but primitive fear 
was fast laying hold on his soul. How 
could civilization free from bondage in 
a single generation, a life which was 
the product of ages of superstitious 
slavery? Had not the evil Kahuna- 
anana called the fatal curse down upon 
his cousin, and had he not perished 
miserably? How could he, Lukapehu, 
hope to escape? 

He looked back. . . . and was lost! 
The sun had gone down leaving a bloody 
reflection in a cloud-bespattered sky; 
the shadows lay black and threatening 
among the palms. Beside the darkly 
mumbling stream stood Kapukapu, his 
ragged hair fluttering in the quickening 
breeze, his long arms extended, his 
gnarled staff pointing toward the terri¬ 
fied Lukapehu, while he muttered his 
diabolical dead-naming, “Lukapehu 
shall die! Lukapehu shall die!” 

Lukapehu broke into a run, leaving 
a silver trail behind him as the fishes 
fell from his net. Faster and faster he 
sped toward the shelter of his hut, as 
the chant of the Kahuna-anana rose 
higher and higher until it seemed to fill 
the earth, “Lukapehu shall die! Luka¬ 
pehu shall die!” 

The poor fisherman sank exhausted be¬ 
fore the door of his hut saying over and 
over, “I am dying; Kapukapu has 
called me! I am dying! I am dying!” 

His frightened wahine and the little 
brown bambino dragged him into the 
house and sent for my father. But he 
was busy and sent word back that Luka¬ 
pehu should not fear, he could not die, 
and that he, my father, would come 

The next morning, just before dawn, 
while the dew was still heavy on the 
ferns and the pandanus, he rode over to 
the hut of the fisherman expecting to 
find him about his work. But Lukapehu 
still lay moaning on the cot, nor could 

He died with the breaking of the day, 
just as the sun dispelled the gloom of 
the Waimea valley, called to his death 
by the hideous Kahuna-anana. 


The Ghastly Secret of Bludmanton Castle 
Is Revealed in a Harrowing Way in 


The Gup of Blood 


A Condensed Novel 
By OTIS ADELBERT KLINE 


I T WAS after the close of the World 
War that Anderson and I decided to 
tour Scotland afoot 
As my purpose is not to chronicle the 
details of that trip in toto, but rather to 
relate the story of how it was brought 
to a most abrupt and fearful termina¬ 
tion, X will state, as briefly as possible, 
the incidents which led to that fateful 
and eventful night at Bludmanton 
Castle. 

After two weeks of pleasant tramping 
and camping, with every night spent 
under canvas, we were strolling through 
a quaint little village late one afternoon, 
hot, tired and thirsty, when Anderson’s 
roving eye spotted a sign that gave 


promise of sundry and assorted liquid 
refreshments of a most inviting nature. 
Straight for that sign we sped at double 
quick, eased our packs to the floor of the 
cool taproom, and were soon washing the 
dust from our parched throats. 

My buddy is qniok at scraping ac¬ 
quaintances, and it was not long before 
he had started a conversation with old 
Sandy Magruder who sat at the table 
next to ours. He was not loath to join 
us in a mug or two of ale, at Anderson’s 
invitation, and we found him exceeding¬ 
ly interesting. 

I presume there is scarce a village, 
town or hamlet anywhere in the world 
that has not some individual landmark 


I was disposed to argue the possibility 

gibbering ghosts, but Anderson kicked 
my shins sharply under the table and 
plied the old fellow with questions that 
brought out a remarkable legend con¬ 
cerning the ancient ruins. 

It seems that, many years before, 
Bludmanton Castle had been the strong¬ 
hold of Sir Malcolm Blud, Laird of 
Bludmanton, a cruel and inhuman mon¬ 
ster who was despised and hated the 
countryside over, both for his servile 
cringing to those above him and his 
heartless and tyrannical treatment of 
those about him who had the misfortune 
to be of humble birth. 


ajLW 8 


A Remarkable Article, Translated from the French 
"Histoire De La Magie” of Alphonse Louis 
Constant, Paris, 1860. Prepared for 
WEIRD TALES by C. P. OLIVER 

BLACK MAGIC 

Being the True Story of Gilles de Laval, Baron de 


. II* 


An Unseen, Terrifying “Thing”Dwelt in 


The Devil’s Cabin 


By VANCE HOYT 


THE DEVIL’S CABIN 


halfbreed. They were excitedly arguing 
some question which seemed to be of in¬ 
tense interest to both. 

All the while, the mozo prodded the 
camp-fire, which he had kindled into a 
bonfire. He was wildly gesticulating and 
waving his hand toward tho cabin where¬ 
in I stood. Now and then his hand wan¬ 
dered to the stub of the severed ear as 
though it pained him. And once, when 
the beast stooped and lighted his cigarro 
with, a burning brand, I saw Alamondo 
quickly place something in the pocket 
of the halfbreed’s cotton jacket. 

The rest of the party could be seen 
in their hammocks, swung In the trees 
nearby. They looked rather snug and 
comfortable beneath their nettings. 

For a long time I stood observing the 
mozo and La Fiera in their talk, marvel¬ 
ing at the mysterious change that had 
suddenly come over the native and won¬ 
dering what he could have placed so 
stealthily in his enemy’s pocket. 

But no explanation could I conjure 
to solve the enigma. So I turned my 
attention to the crackling sound in the 
near brush. A noise like an animal 
crunching brittle bones. Peccaries, I 
thought; the rooting, grunting scaven¬ 
gers of the jungle. 

Then it occurred to me for the first 
time; perhaps Bill was right, and, after 
all, I was wrong. But there was no back- 


Thus, without further thought on the 
subject, I blew out the candle, wrapped 
my blanket about me, and, Colt in hand, 
was soon lost to the world 

I DO NOT know how long I slept But 
it must have been after midnight 
when I awakened. Not suddenly, 
as one is usually aroused in moments of 
danger, but gradually, a degree at a 


So natural w 


il moments, I lay li 


that 


the muffled ticking of the timepiece in 
the pocket of my trousers. 

There is something soothing, mesmeric, 
about the ticking of the delicate works 
of a watch in the dead hours of night. 
And often, in the wilderness, have I re¬ 
turned to conscious life under the hyp¬ 
notic, metallic voice of man’s most time¬ 
ly friend. So it did not occur to me that 
my awakening was unusual, or that 
everything was not as it should be. 

But as I lay there, restful, perfectly 
at peace with the world, dozing, linger¬ 
ing in a semi-conscious state, it suddenly 
dawned upon me that I was not alone. 
I sensed inwardly, rather than felt out¬ 
wardly, that there was some living thing 


in the room besides myself. Instantly 
I was awake and in perfect control of 

A velvety soft, with now and then a 
grating, sound came to me from out the 
Egyptian darkness, like the scaly body 
of a huge snake crawling through dry 
grass. A tense moment passed. Then 
a strong, acrid odor assailed me, equally 
as revolting as that of the voodoo sari: 
about my neck. 

Cautiously, I came to a semi-sitting 
posture, revolver in hand and finger 
crooked for action. I waB not to be taken 
by surprise. Breathlessly, I awaited the 
intruder’s attack. 

In the dense darkness I eould see noth¬ 
ing, save now and then the phosphores¬ 
cent glimmer of a vagrant lightning 
beetle that had fiown into the hut. 

I peered about the room, seeking to 
discern what living thing, man, beast or 
devil, confronted me. I stared until my 
eyeballs ached, but no object could I 
make out. Then my attention was sud¬ 
denly attracted to the floor where some¬ 
thing was lightly rocking the loose logs. 

For some time I listened to this crad¬ 
ling of the planking, exerting my wits to 
fathom the cause of so peculiar a phe¬ 
nomenon. 

At first, the thought had occurred to 
me that it might be some one of our party 
who had worked his way into the place 
to test my nerve. But I immediately 
dismissed this from my mind. The risk 
would be too great for a sane man to 
take. But then, what was it? 

There was only one answer. I would 
have to find out I 

I rose to my feet and gingerly stepped 
into the center of the room, listening for 
the faintest sound. But nothing was 
audible, save the stifled gasps of my 
breathing. The noise had suddenly 

A flood of thoughts went skittering 
through my mind. Then it suddenly 
dawned upon me. This “thing” had de¬ 
liberately moved away as I approached 
it. It had passed along the planking 
as quickly and noiselessly as a gliding 
reptile. I felt certain that it was neither 

But what could it be? 

However, it did not matter. There was 
but one remedy! 

I leveled my revolver in the direction 
of the “thing” that must be somewhere 
before me. But before I had completed 
the movement, I was conscious that it 
had vanished—seemingly into space. 

For the first time in my life, I felt 
a sense of terror tugging at my throat. 
Here was an enemy that had me help¬ 
lessly at its mercy. There was no way 
of determining to where the “thing” 


had vanished. It might at that very 
second be crouched directly behind me, 
preparing to spring 


In the black void before me, I sensed 
that something moved. Now over here 
—now over Iherc—behind me—in front 
of me—! Then I caught the heavy breath 
of the “thing” directly above my head. 

I gasped and looked up. 

r-pWO RED EYES, piercing as balls 
of fire, stared into my face. The 
warmth of its breath was upon my 
cheek and its odor was revolting! 

Without thought, I sprang back and 
began discharging my revolver at this 
devil that was closing in on me from all 

A series of blood-curdling sereams, 
human in their fierceness, filled the quiet¬ 
ness of the room as if a thousand in¬ 
furiated demons had sprung into the 
place, dancing to the staccato of my re- 

There was a rush, a mad scramble. 
Something dashed over my head and out 
through the window with the swish of 
a monster bat. The rickety cabin shook 
as if in a tempest. Huge forms lurched 
about me and against the walls, tearing 
and rocking the logs of the floor in fran¬ 
tic desperation to escape the zipping fire 
of hot lead. 

From outside came the reverberating 
roar of a living thing, and I knew some¬ 
thing was leaving a trail of blood. 

I sprang to the window to see if I 
could discern what I had hit. But in 
the blackness I could see nothing—ex¬ 
cept Bill, rifle in hand, revealed in the 
glare of the camp-fire, running towards 
me. The mozo, with a lighted pitch-pine 
knot, was following closely at his heels. 
Rodriquez was nowhere to be seen. 

With the aid of the flaring torch, I saw 
a huge form lying near the foot of the 
bunk. I had stooped to examine the 
“thing” more closely, when the mozo 
caught me by the arm. 

“ Ay I Ay 1 ” he shrieked. “Come away! 
Come awayl Jalingo! Jalingo!’’ 

I looked at the native sharply. There 
was in the tone of his voice all the evi¬ 
dence of extreme fright. But in the 
man’s face I was not so easily deceived. 
There was a crafty, cunning expression 
in eveiy feature. 

But before I could express the thought 
that occurred to me, he crossed himself 
and stepped back into the darker por- 

In the meantime, with the barrel of 
his Winchester, Bill had turned the 


Startling Indeed Were the Ghostly 
Night Riders That Haunted 


The Old Burying Ground 

A Complete Novelette 

By EDGAR LLOYD HAMPTON 


Here Are the Last Thrilling Chapters of 


SUNFIRE 

By FRANCIS STEVENS 


A RESUME OF THE EARLY CHAPTERS 

r?IVE young Americans, in quest of adventure, land upon upon the strange island of Tata Quarahy, and there 
r behold, in the hollow heart of an ancient pyramid, a hideous monster, somewhat like a gigantic centipede, dancing 
to the music of Pan's pipe, played by a beautiful woman. Following a series of harrowing adventures in the pyra¬ 
mid, during which they discover a mammoth diamond of incalculable value, the adventurers are trapped in a tomb, 
where, it seems, they are to be burned alive as a sacrifice to the native deity. Death by starvation, however, instead 
of this horrible fate, begins to threaten them, when their long waiting at last ends. Their keeper comes to them. 

THE STORY CONTINUES FROM THIS POINT 


SUNFIRE 


CHAPTER SIXTEEN 


TT IS bo good in you all,” the girl be- 
gan, somewhat later in the day, 
when they were all seated together un¬ 
der the big canoe’s awning, “so very 
good in you to understand and not blame 
me in the least for any of it. Of course, 
Mr. Sigsbee’s remembering me helps. I 
am almost sure that I recall his face, 
too, though I drove so many officers back 
and forth to Camp Upton—Oh, you were 
‘just a sergeant’ and I didn’t drive you! 
Why, I drove lots of the non-coms and 
the boys, too. We all did. Well, if you 
couldn’t get near my car, I’m sorry. 
There was a crowd—Oh, you were trans¬ 
ferred to Georgia just after I began 
driving at Camp Upton! And then 
never got across! That tons stupid. But 
I can sympathise with you fully. They 
wouldn’t take me in the ambulance corps, 
because they said I was too young and 
not strong enough. Wasn’t that absurd! 
I’m not so awfully large, of course, but 
my physical endurance is simply end- 


and tell this properly. 

“My father, as I have already told 
you, was Dr. Alexander Widdiup, the 
archaeologist, and I was born on the 
Amazon, in Manaos. Mother took me 
home to New York when I was a baby, 
and I never saw Brazil again till this 

“I was nine years old when poor Dad 
wrote us that he was planning a trip up 
the Rio Silencioso. An Indian had 
brought him word that at the Silencioso's 
source were some remarkable ruins and 
relics of an ancient people. This Indian 
—his name was Peter or—no, Petro, that 
was it—I beg pardon, Mr. Otway! Yes, 
his name was Kuyambira-Pctro. Dad 
said he came from some cannibal tribe 
on the Moju river. He was a wizard, too, 
and made charms to protect people from 
jungle and river-demons. He showed 
Dad one of those jaguar tunics, and two 
small diamonds, cut to symbolize the 
sun. But the expedition my father or¬ 
ganized, never came back. 

“Dad had been with us in New York 
only part of each year, but he and I were 
best pals. I used to say to myself that 
some day, when I grew up, I’d find a 
way to at least learn how he died. 

“Then the War came. Mother always 
lets me do about as I please, and I had 
learned to fly a Bleriot, but of course 
they wouldn’t take me in the aviation 
corps, either. So finally I had to content 
myself with motor-car service at home. 
After peace was signed, poor Major Du¬ 
pont agreed to help me in my scheme 


to reach the source of th 
by the air-route. Major Dupont was 
English—Royal Flying Corps—but he 
was visiting friends in New York on six 
months’ leave. When I told him my 
plan he considered it very practical and 
interesting. 

“We decided on the hydro-airplane 
because we had to rise from the Amazon, 
and over these foresta if we couldn’t 
come down on water we couldn’t come 

“Mother is at Manaos now, waiting for 
me. She is probably terribly worried, 
but still she knows that I always do get 
through safely somehow. I beg pardon! 
Oh, I inherit an adventurous disposition 
from father, and I don’t think size and 
physical strength count for so much in 

“Why, Mr. Waring! You mustn’t say 
that! Why, I didn’t mean that at all! 
You poor things, of course you couldn’t 
help yourselves with that frightful beast 
threatening you every moment. But let 
me go on, and you’ll understand better. 

“Mother drew the line at my making 
this trip alone, but poor Major Dupont 
was so resourceful and had such a splen¬ 
did flying record that when he offered, 
that made it much safer, of course. The 
Major and I only meant to make a recon- 
naisance flight this first trip, but we had 
no trouble in finding the lake. The top of 
the pyramid flashed its location to us 
miles off. Of course, we didn’t know 
what the flash meant. It was like an 
enormous, bright star shining in broad 
daylight, and on earth instead of up in 
the sky where stars belong. 

“Mr. Tellifer! A fallen star—yes, 
that was just what poor Major Dupont 
said it resembled. It is a little strange 
that he should have used that compari¬ 
son, because of what was told to me later 

“We planed down to the lake and 
landed in the collapsible boat we car¬ 
ried. There have been several heavy rains 
since, and our little craft must have filled 
and sunk. I notice it is not among the 
others. Major Dupont wished me to 
wait and let him go up the pyramid 
alone, but I wouldn’t, so we went up 
together. It was noon, but of course 
we had no means of knowing that noon 
meant anything dangerous. 

“We looked over the upper rim, and 
there was that strange hollow place, with 
palms and shrubbery and in the middle 
—something glorious. Major Dupont 
said it must be the grandfather of all 
diamonds, and we joked over it. We knew 
it was fearfully hot in the court, but it 
was hot outside, too. We walked over 
to the pit. Major Dupont said there 
must be a furnace below it He stepped 


The column I caught hold of was so hot 
it scorched my hands. I—I find I can’t 
tell you much of this. . . . Thank you. 
Yes, I believe Ill just leave it out. I 
couldn’t help him. There wasn’t time. I 
—fainted, I think. 

“Afterward, for a long while, every¬ 
thing was like a dream. My first memory 
is of looking up into the face of an old 
woman, very strangely dressed. 1 was 
lying on the floor of one of the outer 
houses. She had taken away my own 
clothes and dressed me like herself. This 
seemed a bit strange for a few minutes, 
and after that quite natural. I accepted 
everything just as one does in a dream. 
Some of the time I would even seem to 
know I was dreaming, and wonder a 
little why I couldn’t wake up. I felt 
very sad always, though there didn’t 

“I think it was the shock of what I 
had seen happen. There was a Miss 
Blair that mother and I knew. She was 
the dearest girl, but she had been at a 
hospital base in France when it was 
shelled by the Germans. For nearly a 
year afterward she wasn’t herself at all. 
She cried a great deal, and couldn’t take 
interest in anything. I used to bring her 
flowers, and when I called I noticed she 
would never do anything unless the 
nurse or I suggested she should. I sup¬ 
pose I was very much like that. . . . 

“Why yes, Mr. Waring. If any of you 
had asked me to release you or told me 
to shut that hideous creature in its hole, 
I think I would have done it. When you 
all seemed so—so annoyed over what 
was happening, I used to wonder why 
you never asked mo to do differently. 
But then, you were just people in a 
dream, and dream-people never do be¬ 
have consistently, you know. So I went 
on acting as Sifa directed me, because 
that was easiest 

“The old woman’s name was Sifa. 
She spoke English and some other lan¬ 
guage that meant nothing to me. Her 
teeth were nearly all gone, but very soon 

broken accent and understood almost 
everything she said in English. 

“I did whatever she advised me to. 
She didn’t hurt me or even threaten. In 
fact she was extremely considerate and 
—kind, I was going to say, but that hard¬ 
ly expresses it. Her face and eyes were 
too wicked. I followed her advice be¬ 
cause she seemed to know exactly what I 
ought to do, and it was such an effort 
to think of things for myself. Besides, 


A Grim Yarn of Horror 


The Gorilla 


L beastly wind was blowing, and as I 
left the club it nearly took me off my 
feet It was with considerable satisfac¬ 
tion, therefore, that I found a cheery 
log fire awaiting me in the library of my 


“It does that, sir.” 

The wind shrieked around the cornice 
of the house. It died out with a long, 
low, wail, only to rise again with a great¬ 
er fury than before. 


A hot toddy at my elbow, I 
my man for the night and settled down 
before the Are to enjoy an hour or so of 
reading before retiring. 

And now there came to my ears an¬ 
other sound. At first I thought it was 
only the wind. But as I heard it a sec¬ 
ond time I felt certain that it was a 
human voice calling. Laying aside the 
book I had been reading, I leaned for¬ 
ward in an effort to catch the sound 
again. Then suddenly, above the screech 
of the wind I heard my name called. 

“Madden—Madden, for God’s sake 
open the door!” 

With a shriek of terror the voice 
trailed off in a high pitched wail that 
mingled with the howling wind. 

Snatching my automatic from the 
mantel above the fire-place, I rushed to 
the hall door and flung it open. Invol¬ 


untarily I drew back, as a mud-covered 
figure rushed past me into the hall. 

“Close that door! For the love of God, 
Madden! Quick, before it is too late!” 

Gasping for breath, eyes bulging with 
terror, the figure crouched against the 
wall like a hunted animal. 

Closing and bolting the door, I turned 
and hastily scrutinised the man’s face. 
Through the mud that covered his fea¬ 
tures I recognized Hapesworth Chad¬ 
wick, collector of animals for the Wild 
Park Zoological Gardens. 

“My God, Chadwick! What has hap- 

“Are you sure no one or—or—any¬ 
thing—can get in through that door!” 
he anxiously inquired, ignoring my ques- 

“ Dynamite is about the only thing 
that will open that door from the out¬ 
side,” I assured him. 

Seeming more at ease, he lifted a shak¬ 
ing hand and drew it across his face, 
wiping off some of the mud that stuck 
there. It was not until then that I no¬ 
ticed his attire. Clad in a suit of pa- 


A True Story of Oriental Mysticism 


THE TALISMAN 

By NADIA LAVROVA 


O NE of the strangest incidents of 
my life happened two short 
years ago in Japan. I am writ¬ 
ing it down just as it took place and 
withhold all comments, as I really can 
advance no logical explanation what¬ 
ever of the whole chain of events. 

During the summer of 1920 I had 
spent a very pleasing vacation in 
Kamakura, that beautiful sea resort 
some fifteen miles from Yokohama, 
famed throughout the Far East. 

In company with two girl friends, I 
had taken a tiny little house not three 
minutes’ walk from the golden beach. 

And when, in the morning, we hastily 
donned native kimonos over our one- 
piece bathing suits and made a dash for 
the first plunge in the waters of the 
Pacific, we three lazy girls knew that 
by the time we came home our little 
house would he in perfect order and 
steaming hot coffee await us in Sat- 
suma cups. 

The ten fairy little fingers who did 
all our housework belonged to our 
pretty Japanese maid—Ine San. 

That girl had taken a special liking 
to me. I don’t know why, unless it 
was because I used to listen for hours 
at a time when she unfolded to me all 
the secrets of the weird Japanese super¬ 
stitions. 

My two friends used to smile conde¬ 
scendingly, when, squatting on the 
mats in Ine San’s room I was becoming 
initiated into all the mysterious doings 
of the two-tailed cats and spirits of 
foxes who choose bodies of beautiful 
young girls for their permanent abode. 

Sometimes, when the scoffers de¬ 
parted, I was granted a special favor. 
Ine San would take from a cupboard 
with sliding panels an ancient lac¬ 
quered box. This was reverently placed 
on a silk handkerchief and ceremoni¬ 
ously opened. In that box were pre¬ 
served amulets and charms against all 
evils that flesh is heir to. 

Ine San could not know that all the 
time I was simply making a compara¬ 
tive study of Chinese and Japanese 
folk-lore, which is a very difficult thing 
for a white person to do, since one has 
first to gain the fullest confidence of 
one’s yellow friend. She cherished the 


idea that she was converting me to her 
beliefs. 

In September my vacation ended. 
With a regretful sigh, I bid good-bye to 
Kamakura, the tiny doll-house and Ine 
San, and returned to my regular work 
in Yokohama. 

I was employed on the staff of a for¬ 
eign paper, being pretty much occu¬ 
pied during the greater part of the day, 
though as a special favor I was allowed 
to do part of the non-rush work at 
home. 

My “home” consisted of a nice com¬ 
fortable room of a boarding-house sit¬ 
uated on the Bluff, the residential quar¬ 
ter of Yokohama. The place was built 
on an English plan with all modem 
conveniences, but somehow I missed 
very much my inconvenient little Jap¬ 
anese house where I had spent such a 
delightful summer. 

One rainy morning in the end of No¬ 
vember I was awakened by a scratch at 
my bed-room door. I looked at my 
watch. It showed half past six. Who 
the dickens— 

The scratch, the Japanese idea of a 
polite knock, was repeated, and the 
silvery voice of Ine San begged leave 

She came in, clad in a mourning 
kimono of lotus-white crepe with un¬ 
trimmed edges that proclaimed the 
death of a near relative. 

After the first greetings in pretty 
good English (she had lived in Amer¬ 
ican families out in the Orient most of 
her life), Ine San stated the object of 

“I come say goo’-bye,” she said. 
“My father’s father he all dead and 
now family have velly long mourning. 
I go velly velly far—our village, must 
go three days and then say many 
prayers. I no come back long time.” 

I was genuinely sorry to see her go 
and wished her every possible happl- 

“Miss Lavrova, you always so kind 
to me,” continued Ine San. “You no 
laugh Japanese believings. I bling you 
velly sedet and happy thing.” 

Saying this, she put on my coverlet 
a delicate mesh bag filled with about 
a hundred lilliput micans, a kind of 


Japanese orange. These were so small 
that a silver dollar would have made a 
fitting dish for any of them. 

I began thanking her for the deli¬ 
cious present when I saw that I had 
been guilty of a misunderstanding. 

Out of the folds of her kimono Ine 
San had extricated a tiny something 
carefully wrapped in a piece of white 
rice-paper. Red and gold characters 
were drawn on it by means of a brush. 

Reverently. Ine San undid the wrap¬ 
ping and I beheld a small chip of some 
rare wood rather oddly shaped. It was 
neither polished nor painted. 

Several hieroglyphs were burned on 
one side of it, and even I, with my poor 
knowledge of Japanese, immediately 
saw that they were in the ancient lan¬ 
guage used in Nippon somewhere 
around the tenth or twelfth century. 

“Oh, what have you got there, Ine 
SanI” I exclaimed with interest. 

“Velly good and strong charm, Mis- 
sie, and save yon life quite surely.” 

She began her long and rambling 
explanations and I, sitting up in bed, 
listened patiently. 

It appeared that this talisman, for 
such it happened to be, was endowed 
with great mysterious powers. Sold 
for a few cents at an obscure ancient 
temple somewhere south of Tokyo, it 
could be secured only by a personal ap¬ 
plication to the priests. 

Certainly it was never destined to 
fall into the impious hands of a white 
person such as myself. And only the 
fondness my little Japanese friend bore 
me could have made such an unlikely 
event possible. 

“And what does the charm protect 
fromt” I asked Ine San, not wanting 
to hurt her feelings and desirous to 
keep up an interest in the thing. Any¬ 
way, I reflected, it would do very nicely 
for my little curio collection. 

“Him saves life, Missie,” repeated 
Ine San. "You going get killed. You 
got that holy thing. You no get hurt 
and charm all break.” 

This was something new. I had 
never heard of such a talisman before, 
so I began asking questions. 

Yet I elicited nothing much except 
what Ine San had already stated. The 


A Spook Story of Sprightly Adventure 


THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF 
A BLUE GHOST 

By DON MARK LEMON 


T HIS is a message from the Be¬ 
yond, sketching my brief expe¬ 
rience as a blue ghost, and no¬ 
where have I dyed any of the plain sober 
gray stuff of actual events in the bright 
hues of my own vivid imagination, for 
I hold that those things which are set 
down exactly as they took place are the 
most valuable of human transcriptions. 
They leave the mind free to judge for 
itself, without prejudice or bias, except 
its own prejudice and bias, which is the 
highest freedom and truth. 

Names, dates, events, herein are all 
genuine, and my tombstone in Green¬ 
wood Cemetery is a silent yet sure wit¬ 
ness that I died. A bill of seventeen 
dollars and eighty cents still standing 
against the stone testifies that, though 
dead, my credit yet lives. And that I 
am alive as a ghost can not be disputed 
by any reasonable mind, since there are 
things set down here too ghostly to have 
been set down by any hand but that 
of a ghost. I leave it to an unpreju¬ 
diced jury of six men and six ghosts. 

Enter at the main gate of Greenwood 
Cemetery, pace off fifty-four steps to the 
north, turn west seven steps, vault the 
fence here and pace twenty steps north, 
and read on my tombstone 

“Sacred to the memory of 
Robert Jay Tuffiey 
Born April first, 1880 
Died April first, 1919 
Rest in peace.’’ 

But I didn’t rest in peace very long, 
for the ghost of a man named Edwin 
X. Benjamin came along shortly after 
my funeral, and almost on the heels of 
my last mourner, a little tailor from 
lower Fifth Street, and kicking with 
his ghostly feet on my brand-new tomb¬ 
stone shouted for me to “come out of 
it” and pay him the ten dollars that I 
had honestly forgotten I owed him. 

Besides, he didn’t need the money, 
while several others to whom I honestly 
owed more than ten dollars did need 
their money. I called back for him to 
fetch me out of it, for it was the first 


time I had died in quite a while and I 
couldn’t recall just how to resurrect 
myself from the papier mache coffin in 
which my loving friends had buried me, 
and I was afraid unless I was very care¬ 
ful that I might resurrect myself wrong 
and there would be the devil to pay. 

He shouted down some directions, 
which I followed, and soon my ghost 
was standing beside Benjamin’s ghost. 
He was a blue ghost too, only bluer than 
myself, and looked kind of fuzzy around 
the edges, like a raveled ghost, but more 
like a hazy transparent silhouette of his 
former self. I could look right through 
him and see several tombstones beyond. 

I stared about the quiet graveyard, 
then exclaimed: ‘“Why, I’m not dead I 
This isn’t hell!” 

The ghost of Benjamin, that I will 
call Ben for brevity’s sake, gave a short 
nasty laugh, as he replied: “No, not 
yet; you haven’t been here long 
enough.” 

I felt quite weak, being only just bom 
as a ghost, and taking a few steps I sat 
down on a stone and stared at a tomb¬ 
stone. Suddenly I gave a gasp, for on 
the tombstone were the words: 

Born January'ninth, 1882 
Died July seventh, 1918” 

“It’s a Chinaman’s gravel” I yelled. 
"And my grave next door to it I” 

Ben yawned. “Sure! This is the 
Chinese addition to Greenwood.” 

“There’s going to be a lawsuit over 
burying me in a chink graveyard,” I 
scowled. 

“There was a lawsuit,” said Ben. 
“The Chinese company who owns this 
section of the cemetery got a judgment 
of two hundred dollars and costs against 
your undertaker for burying you here.” 

I looked hard at Ben and saw he 
meant it, so I decided to drop my law¬ 
suit and start something else rolling to 
bring me in a few dollars. 

“How did you get heret” I asked 
Ben, looking about and seeing no Ford, 
and wishing for something on wheels 


that would spare me the trouble of trav¬ 
eling afoot, for I did not propose to 
spend the balance of my ghostly exist¬ 
ence in a Chinese graveyard. 

Ben brought a hazy-looking bicycle 
from behind a tombstone. “On my bike, 
of course.” 

“Can a ghost ride a bike!” I asked. 

“Ghost bikes,” replied Ben. “This 
is the mechanical ghost of my old bike, 
and it’8 all right except its make and 
action and a puncture in the back tire. 
I was coming across the path there when 
I punctured it on the tooth of a dead 
Chinaman that had worked out of the 
ground. Just my blame blue luck!” 

For twenty years, while alive as boy 
and man, Ben had ridden the same bike, 
with a racing saddle about the size of 
a parcel post stamp, and now his ghost 
was riding the ghost of that bike. This 
is what I would call habit wedded to 
economy, but flirting with parsimony. 

“Any room for me on the handle 
bars!” I asked. 

Ben looked hurt and, getting on the 
bike, started off. I ran after him and 
begged him to give me a few tips about 
ghostland, to put me wise to the tricks 
that are ghostly and the wiles that are 
beyond the grave. 

“Anyway, tell me, ami here to stay!” 
I asked. 

“Did you bring your nerve along!” 
he demanded. 

“Sure,” I replied. 

“Then, we’ll never shake you.” With 
this, he rode away and left ray young 
ghost standing in the center of that Chi¬ 
nese graveyard. 

I was a blue ghost, and I felt it. I 
looked myself over and fouud I was 
blame poor stuff. I stuck a finger 
through myself sideways and pulled it 
out, and nothing came out of myself but 
my finger. It didn’t hurt either, ex¬ 
cept for a brief pain in my finger. All 
there was to me was a kind of hazy blue 
outline and the consciousness of my 
identity as Robert Jay Tuffiey. I 
seemed to be just identity—just Bob 


THH AUTOBIOGRAPHY OP A BLUB GHOST 


“Great Scott!” I exclaimed. “If I ca 


I will sc 


have been everywhere and back again.” 

“I said there’s a limit of a million 
miles an hour, not that you could make 
a million miles an hour,” explained Ben, 
“You’ll need to grow a few days before 
you can make half that” 

“Will I be traveling a half million 
miles an hour in a few days?” I de¬ 
manded. 

“Perhaps,” nodded Ben. “If some 
ghost sting-ray doesn’t meet you and lay 
her eggs in your neck to hatch out.” 

I laughed. “That must be a ghost- 
boil! But I’d believe more of that if I 
knew less of you.” 

It angered Ben to be called a prevar¬ 
icator to his face. “Have it your own 
fool way,” he said. “You’ll be lucky if 
the sting-ray doesn’t bore a hole in your 
identity and lay her eggs there. Only 
I’d be sorry for the little sting-rays that 
had to be hatched in your identity.” 

“What’s the most fun a blue ghost can 
have for nothing!” I asked, for I had 
just that much in my pocket, but no 
pocket as yet 

” ‘ ' it the ghost 


hives,” replied Ben. 

“What are the ghost 
“To scratch.” 

“Is it a pleasure to 
hives!” 

“The only fun a blue ghost can have 
is to scratch his lives,” replied Ben. 
“Now, aren’t you sorry you died!” 

“I couldn’t help it,” I said. "I was 
shot.” 

“But you shouldn’t have taken that 
cow,” said Ben. 

“Hello! what have we here!” I cried. 
In another moment I started to run, 
and not ask any more questions, for I 
had recognized the thing before me as 
just a big ghostly human hand, seven 
feet high, and it was reaching for me. 

would squeeze the very identity out of 

“Help 1” I cried, for the big hand had 
got me and was squeezing my outline 
into the shape of a disappointed cruller. 
But it seemed that nothing could squeeze 
my identity into any other shape that 
it was, for it was too rigid. 

After the hand had squeezed my out¬ 
line from all ghoetly semblance to a 
man, it threw me aside and moved on, 

tory. I watched it till it was hidden by 


of my damaged outli 
worked myself baok 
shape, and felt no won 
experience. My identity 


for my amaalng froi 


“Was that the ghost of a glad hand!” 
I asked. 

“No, that was the ghost of a milk¬ 
man,” replied Ben, “He milked twenty 
cows before breakfast for seventeen 
years, and died suddenly one morning 
from water on the brain, and now he 
goes about milking every blue ghost he 
comes across, and we blame blue ghosts 
have to stand for it, for blue ghosts have 
to stand for everything.” 

"Where was the rest of him!” l 

“There isn’t any rest of him. He is 
all hand. Ghostland ia ful of ghosts 
that now are all what they were most 
of while alive as men and women. There 
are ghosts that are all ears, or nose, or 
necktie, or haircut. You want to look 
out for the ghost that’s all gall. If he 
ever spreads himself over you, even your 
identity will he slightly fussed.” 

Just then a pair of large, hare, very 
dean, very pink feet hurried by, eaoh 
about a yard high, and I watched them 
until they had hurried over the hill, than 
I sat down and whistled. 

“Great SoottI” I laughed. “That 


Seott. He alwa 
something.” 

“That’s Scott’s ghost,” nodded Ben. 
“He died in a hurrioane. 

"from hurry to hurry he hurried 
himself to hurry out of debt. And 
but he hurried into a hurrioane. Be 
had been hurrying yet." 

“I must be half an hour old,” I con¬ 
sidered. “I guess my crust should be 
hard enough by now for me to roll on¬ 
ward. Believe me, Ben, I had some orust 
before I became a ghost.” 

“I’ll go along with you a little ways,” 
Ben offered, pushing his bike along be¬ 
side me. “There’s a ghost dog down 
the road that always rushes out and 
bites me in my outline, and he may want 
a change of outline.” 

“If he comes after me, I’ll ehange his 
outline,” I laughed. “Say, Ben, do yon 
know of any rich young ghost girl—I 
mean wealthy, for all girls are rich—who 
might be willing to marry a handsome 
blue ghost an hour old!” 

“There’s a wealthy ghost girl down 
the road a ways, but she’s not very 
young,” replied Ben. 

“How old is she—a month!” 

“She beoame a ghost girl the year 
that Helen was carried off to Troy by 
Paris. But you’d never guess her age 


“She’s a triangle, with one blind eye 
in the center of the triangle." 

I waved the temptation to sudden 
riches aside. “I’d rather work and 
change jobs so often that it wouldn’t 
seem like real work. But I say, Ben, 
what makes your bike rattle so!" 

“That’s the dead Chinaman’s tooth, 
that punctured the tire and got inside. 
If there was only one dead Chinaman in 
•Id, and he had only one tooth, 


that to 


his coffin and punctured my tire. That Is 
just my blame blue luck.” 

“But I say, Ben, I thought ghostland 
was a dim, haunted place, inhabited with 
ghastly specters and grisly shapes, and 
your hair stood on end without any vase¬ 
line, and a clammy sweat froze your B. 
V. D’s. to your funked back bone, and 
your middle name was fear! Then Hor. 
ror blew out the last candle and you were 
alone with—” 

“With what!” asked Ben. 

I sunk my ghostly voice to a ghostly 
whisper. “The seven dead Chinamen 
whose throats you had cut to rob them." 
“How much did you get!" 

'Only a pint of little black ooliar 


- ouu a lady’s 

in a hurry about tWrt een paste shiners 


. it,” I K. 

Well, that’s something,” said Ben. 
' ‘ I wouldn’t have got that much.'' 

Then a faint, phosphorous light 
oame from somewhere in the darkness,” 
I continued. “And I saw a little tree 
coming up from the ground with some¬ 
thing swinging to it, and one of the 
dead Chinamen arose and watered the 
tree with blood from hia throat that I 
had cut, and the tree grew higher and 
higher till it was a large oak, and swing¬ 
ing to it, hanged by the ne ' ’ ’ 


“What!” asked Ben. 

“A human figure—a man with a 
black hood over his face—and something 
compelled me, step by step, to approach 
the tree and remove the hood from over 
the face of the dead and hanged man, 

“Yourself,” yawned Bon. 

“Sure," I nodded. “That’s what 
hurt! There I was, cutting myself down, 
hanged dead, and only got out of the 
job a pint of little black collar buttons 
and a lady’s back comb with thirteen 
paste shiners in it It was very disap¬ 
pointing." 

“Ghostland isn’t what it used to be," 
Ben sighed. “We ghosts used to pull off 
some pretty shaky stunts. When I was 
alive as a man and in the yam and 
bicycle business in Florida, the ghost of 
a big murdered buck negro used always 
to follow me into my bedroom at nights 
and lock the door behind me, and throw 


MASTERPIECES OF WEIRD FICTION 


No. 3 —The Damned Thing 

By AMBROSE BIERCE 


CHAPTER ONE 

One Does Not Always Eat What Is On 
the Table 

B N the light of a tallow eandle which 
had been placed on one end of a 
rough table a man was reading 
something written in a book. It waa an 
old account book, greatly worn; and the 
writing waa not, apparently, very legible, 
for the man sometimea held the page 
close to the flame of the candle to get a 
stronger light on it. The shadow of the 
book would then throw into obscurity a 
half of the room, darkening a number 
of faces and figures; for besides the 
reader, eight other men were present. 
Seven of them sat against the rough log 
walls, silent, motionless, and, the room 
being small, not very far from the table. 
By extending an arm any one of them 
could have touched the eighth man, who 
lay on the table, face upward, partly 
covered by a sheet, his arms at his sides. 
He was dead. 

The man with the book was not read¬ 
ing aloud, and no one spoke; all seemed 
to be waiting for something to occur; the 
dead man only was without expectation. 
Prom the blank darkness outside came 
in, through the aperture that served for 
a window, all the ever unfamiliar noises 
of night in the wilderness—the long 
naiuoless note of a distant coyote; the 
stilly pulsing thrill of tireless insects in 
trees; strange cries of night birds, so 
different from those of the birds of day; 
the drone of great blundering beetles, 
and all that mysterious chorus of small 
sounds that seem always to have been 
but half heard when they have suddenly 
ceased, as if conscious of an indiscretion. 
But nothing of all this was noted in that 
company; its members were not over¬ 
much addicted to idle interest in matters 
of no practical importance; that was ob¬ 
vious in every line of their rugged faces 
—obvious even in the dim light of the 
single candle. They were evidently men 
of the vicinity—farmers and woodsmen. 

The person reading was a trifle differ¬ 
ent; one would have said of him that he 
was of the world, worldly, albeit there 
was that in his attire which attested a 
certain fellowship with the organisms of 


his environment, His coat would hardly 
have passed muster in San Pranoisco; 
his foot-gear was not of urban origin, 
and the hat that lay by him on the floor 
(he was the only one uncovered) was 
such that If one had considered it as an 
article of mere personal adornment he 
would have missed its meaning. In coun¬ 
tenance the man was rather prepossess¬ 
ing, with just a hint of sternness; though 
that he may have assumed or cultivated, 
as appropriate to one in authority. For 


his office that he had possession of the 
book in which he was reading; it had 
been found among the dead man’s effects 
—in his cabin, where the inquest was 
now taking place, 

When the coroner had finished read¬ 
ing he put the book into his breast pock¬ 
et. At that moment the door waa pushed 
open and a young man entered, He, 
clearly, was not of mountain birth and 
breeding: he was clad as those who dwell 
in cities. His clothing was dusty, how¬ 
ever, from travel. He had, in fact, been 
riding hard to attend the inquest. 

The coroner nodded; no one else greet- 

“We have waited for you,” said the 


sides of the cabin talked in whispers, but 
seldom withdrew their gaze from the face 
of the corpse. Presently the coroner 
lifted his eyes and said: “We will re¬ 
sume the inquest;’’ 

The men removed their hats. The wit- 


“What is your n 


” the coroner 


coroner. “It is ni 
with this business tonight.’’ 

The young man smiled. “I 
to have kept you," he said, 
away, not to evade your summons, but 
to post to my newspaper 
what I suppose I; 

The coroner smiled. 

“The account that you posted to your 
newspaper," he said, “differs, probably, 
from that which you will give here under 

“That,” replied the other, rather hot¬ 
ly and with a visible flush, “is as you 
please. I used manifold paper and have 
a copy of what I sent. It was not writ¬ 
ten as news, for it is incredible, but as 
fiction. It may go as a part of my testi¬ 
mony under oath.” 

“But you say it is incredible.” 

“That is nothing to you, sir, if 1 also 
swear that it is true.” 

The coroner was silent for a time, his 


“William Harker.” 

“Agef” 

“Twenty-seven.” 

“You knew the deceased, Hugh Mor¬ 
gan 1” 

“Yes." 

“You were with him when he died!" 

"Near him.” 

“How did that happen—your pres¬ 
ence, I mean?” 

“I was visiting him at his place to 
shoot and fish. A part of my purpose, 
however, was to study him and his odd, 
solitary way of life. He seemed a good 
model for a oharacter in fiction. I Some- 


Some of the jurors laughed. Again 
a somber background humor shows hi; 
lights. Soldiers in the intervals of b« 
tie laugh easily, and a jest in the dea 
chamber conquers by prise. 

“Rolatc the circumstances of t! 
man’s death,” said the coroner. “Yi 
any notes or memoranda th 


Oats 

. . The sun had hardly risen when 
we left the house. We were looking for 
quail, each with a shotgun, but we had 
only one dog. Morgan said that our 
best ground was beyond a certain ridge 
that he pointed out, and we crossed it 
by a trail through the chaparral. On 
the other side was comparatively level 


THE DAMNED THING 


7* 


“I suppose I am at liberty to got” 
“Yes.” 

Harker started to leave, but paused, 
with his hand on the door latch. The 
habit of his profession was strong in him 
—stronger than his sense of personal 
dignity. He turned about and said: 

‘‘The book that you have there—I rec¬ 
ognize it as Morgan’s diary. You seemed 
greatly interested in it; you read it 
while I was testifying. May I see it? 
The public would like—” 

“The book will cut no figure in this 
matter,” replied the official, slipping it 
into his coat pocket; “all the entries in 
it were made before the writer’s death.” 

As Harker passed out of the house the 
jury reentered and stood about the table, 
on which the now covered corpse showed 
under the sheet with sharp definition. 
The foreman seated himself near the 
candle, produced from his breast pocket 
a pencil and scrap of paper and wrote 
rather laboriously the following verdict, 
which with various degrees of effort all 

“We the jury, do find that the remains 
come to their death at the hands of a 
mountain lion, but some of us think, all 
the same, they had fits.” 

CHAPTER FOUR 
An Explanation from the Tomb 
In the diary of the late Hugh Morgan 
are certain interesting entries having 
possibly, a scientific value as sugges¬ 
tions. At the inquest upon his body the 
book was not put in evidence; possibly 
the coroner thought it not worth while to 
confuse the jury. The date of the first 
of the entries mentioned cannot be as¬ 
certained ; the upper part of the leaf is 
tom away; the part of the entry re¬ 
maining follows: 

“. . . would run in half-circle, keep¬ 
ing his head turned always toward the 
center, and again he would stand still, 


barking furiously. At last he ran away 
into the brush as fast as he could go. I 
thought at first that he had gone mad, 
but on returning to the house found no 
other alteration in his manner than what 
was obviously due to fear of punishment. 

“Can a dog see with his nose! Do 
odors impress some cerebral center with 
images of the thing that emitted them! 

“Sept. 2.—Looking at the stars last 
night as they rose above the crest of the 
ridge east of the house, I observed them 
successively disappear—from left to 
right. Each was eclipsed but an instant, 
and only a few at the same time, but 
along the entire length of the ridge all 
that were within a degree or two of the 
crest were blotted out. It was as if 
something had passed along between me 
and them; but I could not see it, and 
the stars were not thick enough to define 
its outline. Ugh! I don’t like this.” 

Several weeks’ entries are missing, 
three leaves being tom from the book. 

“Sept 27.—It has been about here 
again—I find evidence of its presence 
every day. I watched again all last 
night in the same cover, gun in hand, 
double-charged with buckshot. In the 
morning the fresh footprints were there, 
as before. Yet I would have sworn that 
I did not sleep—indeed, I hardly sleep 
at all. It is terrible, insupportable 1 If 
these amazing experiences are real I 
shall go mad; if they are fanciful I am 
mad already. 

“Oct. 3.—I shall not go—it shall not 
drive me away. No, this is my house, my 
land. God hates a coward. . . 

“Oct. 5.—I can stand it no longer; 

I have invited Harker to pass a few 
weeks with me—he has a level head. I 
can judge from his manner if he thinks 

“Oct 7.—I have the solution of the 
mystery; it eame to me last night—sud¬ 


denly, as by revelation. How simple— 
how terribly simple! 

“There are sounds that we cannot 
hear. At either end of the scale are 
notes that stir no chord of that imper¬ 
fect instrument, the human ear. They 
are too high or too grave. I have ob¬ 
served a flock of blackbirds occupying 
an entire tree-top—the tops of several 
trees—and all in full song. Suddenly 
—in a moment—at absolutely the same 
instant—all spring into the air and fly 
away. How! They coud not all see 
one another—whole tree-tops intervened. 
At no point could a leader have been 
visible to all. There must have been a 
signal of warning or command, high and 
shrill above the din, but by me unheard. 
I have observed, too, the same simultan¬ 
eous flight when all were silent, among 
not only blackbirds, but other birds— 
Quail, for example, widely separated by 
bushes—even on opposite sides of a hill. 

“It is known to seamen that a aehool 
of whales basking or sporting on the 
surface of the ocean, miles apart, with 
the convoxity of the earth between, will 

sometimes dive at the same instant_all 

gone out of sight in a moment The 
signal has been sounded—too grave for 
the ear of the sailor at the masthead 
and his comrades on the deck—who nev¬ 
ertheless feel its vibrations in the ship 
as the stones of a cathedral are stirred 
by the bass of the organ. 

“As with sounds, so with colors. At 
each end of the solar spectrum the chem¬ 
ist can detect the presence of what are 
known as ‘actinic’ rays They repre¬ 
sent colors—integral colors in the com¬ 
position of light—which we are unable 
to discern. The human eye is an imper. 
feet instrument; its range is but a few 
octaves of the real ‘chromatic scale.’ I 
am not mad; there are colors that we 

“And, God help mel the Damned 
Thing is of such a color I" 


Rare Animals Discovered on Dipsomania Isle 


r~\OOTOR WILFRED H. OSGOOD, big game hunter and 
chief ourator of zoology of the Field Museum of Nat- 
nral History, Chicago, has jnst returned from an extensive 
expedition through South America, bringing with him 2,000 
species of wild animal and bird life, some so rare that their 
names are still to be discovered. 

Among the oddities of the collection are the pudu, South 
American for small deer; the huillin, a strange species of 
otter; the coypu, which it a large water rat; the huemul, 
another type of South American deer; the guanuoo, or wild 


camel; nandu, which means ostrich, and the viecacha, or 
another species of rat that resembles a rabbit. 

The bulk of the collection, aooording to Dr. Osgood, was 
found on the isolated Island of Ohiloe, which is about the 
site of Vanoouver and lies off the southern coast of Chile. 
It is populated by a tribe of Indians, numbering about 
100,000, whose chief occupation. Dr. Osgood said, is getting 
drunk. They are badly in need of the Volstead act and it 
is said that their capacity for alcohol is unsurpassed any¬ 
where in the world. 


A Fantastic Bit of Fiction 
By FARNSWORTH WRIGHT 


THE TEAK-WOOD 
SHRINE 


H ERE ends the curse of the teak- 
wood devil. Its tale of horror 
is full. I have brought it here 
to this bridge to throw it into the river 
before it brings more misery into the 

I don’t wonder that you look amazed 
at me, sir, for I am much changed since 
you last saw me, a scant two months ago. 
I am no longer the same woman, for the 
power of the teak-wood shrine has 
dragged me through hell. See how the 
teak-wood devil grins! How the little 
rubies of its eyes shine! Do you think 
it does not know what it has done to 
me—that it is merely a dead thing of 
wood and precious stones? It knows 
only too well. It has turned my hair 
white and lined my face with suffering. 
I have forgotten how to smile. 

Oh, no, sir, I would rather you did 
not take it into your hands. Let me hurl 
it over the railing. Let me destroy it at 
once. No, I beseech you, sir! Not for all 
the wealth of the world would I give this 
jeweled shrine away. It can cause noth¬ 
ing but unhappiness and troubled 
thoughts—thoughts so terrible that only 
death can chase them away. 

No person has ever looked into this 
shrine and lived, save only me and one 
other—but he was a holy man of India, 
and I am dying. My sands are running 
out rapidly. I shall welcome death. 

This is the Shrine-devil. See how 
sleek and yellow it is! How fat and 
smiling! Was it carved thus, think you, 
to quell suspicion and invite the un¬ 
fortunate possessor to touch the ruby 
that opens the sliding door? How unc¬ 
tuously that little idol guards its terri¬ 
ble secret! 

A thousand dollars? No, sir, not for 
fifty thousand would I sell it to you, nor 
for fifty times fifty thousand. Money 
cannot buy happiness for me. But grief 
and suffering would attend you if I gave 
you this shrine. The secret locked in its 
heart would drive you mad. If death 
failed to hunt you out, you would go in 
search of it. For the secret is not to be 
borne. I have looked into the shrine and 
I still live, but that is because of my 
prayers before I touched the jewel that 


released the little panel. Woe is me that 
I prayed I For had I not prayed, I might 
now be dead, and therefore happy, in¬ 
stead of slowly drowning in the welter 
of misery that rises ever higher about 

A holy man of India gave the shrine to 
a Christian bishop who had done him a 
great service. 

“Ask and you shall receive,” he said-, 
but he fell upon his knees and begged 
release from his promise when the bishop 
demanded this little teak-wood shrine. 

“The bishop knows not what he asks,” 
said the holy man. “Fain would I grant 
him anything but this, for it will bring 
him misery and ruin.” 

“Nay, by my holy faith,” said the 
bishop, “since you have asked me to 
choose, and it is no small service I have 
done you, I will be satisfied with nothing 
else but the shrine. I shall annul the 
power of the shrine-devil with a Chris¬ 
tian prayer, and show you onoe more the 
impotency of pagan charms.” 

“Bishop, bishop,” answered the holy 
man very gravely, “it will take a potent 
spell indeed to chain the fat devil of the 
teak-wood shrine. And until you find 
that potent spell, I conjure you not to 
examine the shrine too closely, lest you 
touch by chance the little jewel push¬ 
button that opens the door to the mys¬ 
tery within it, for then you will be lost 
utterly.” 

“Tonight,” said the bishop, “I shall 
open it” 

“Nay,” said the holy man, “if I 
thought you were not jesting, I would 
kill you now, and count myself your 
benefactor as having saved you from 
misery the like of which you cannot 
dream exists.” 

So the bishop gave his promise that 
he would not open the shrine. For 
months the teak-wood devil smiled at 
him from behind the big Bible in his 
study and wrought him no manner of 
harm at all, for he had not pressed the 
ruby that opens the sliding door. 

Then one day guests came to the 
bishop’s house, and he told them the 
story of the shrine, even as I have related 
it to you. One of them took it into his 


hands and curiously examined the jewels 
that were embedded in the teak. As he 
examined it, his face turned ghastly 
pale, and he stared like a man whose eyes 
are fixed open in death, for by chance 
he had touched the ruby and opened the 
sliding door. 

Then he uttered a laugh so mirthless, 
so terrible, that one of the women 
shrieked and fainted dead away. It was 
plain that the man was a maniac. 

The boshop took from his hands the 
shrine, and touched in his turn the re¬ 
vealing ruby. The panel slid back again, 
and the bishop found himself looking 
into the interior of the shrine. 

“There is nothing here at all,” he ex¬ 
claimed, “but McBae has gone mad from 

Then suddenly the bishop’s face went 
white, as he realized what he had seen. 
He sank to his knees and prayed. McRae 
broke away from the group and ran to 
his lodgings in the English quarter of 
that native village. When they went for 
him he lay dead on the floor, grasping 
tightly in his hand the revolver with 
which he had slain himself. The bishop 
never ceased to cry out for death, and he 
passed away in delirium within a week. 

'T'HERE was in the bishop’s household 
^ a native servant, who had listened to 
his master’s recital and witnessed the 
tragic results of opening the shrine. He 
determined to possess the treasure, be¬ 
cause of the jewels that shone between 
the yellow handB of the image. The 
servant was very cautious, for he feared 
lest he might himself experience the 
agony of soul that had killed the bishop 
and caused MeRae to slay himself. He 
visited a seer, therefore, and paid ten 
rupees for a spell to bind the teak-wood 
devil. Then the servant took the shrine 
from the bishop’s study, and fled with 
it to Singapore, where he tried to dispose 
of it But the shops all turned against 
him, and offered him little or nothing 
for his treasure, for they said the jewels 

Disconsolate, the servant took the 
shrine between his knees and tried to dig 
out the rubies that lay between the hands 


A Five-Minute Yarn, With 
An Unexpected Twist at the End 


THE MONEY LENDER 


By VINCENT STARRETT 


7« 


THE MONEY LENDER 


His eyes fell again upon the calendar. 
“Pay all bills by cheek,” it said. “You 
will spend less money—” 

He turned away, a crooked smile twist¬ 
ing at his mouth. Martin Hoganson 
watched him with puzzled eyes. Vaguely 
alarmed, the money lender saw his 
visitor open the door; heard the door 
close behind him. With a swift shrug 
the warty man resumed his earlier occu- 


O UTSIDE the tall building, the man 
Smith stopped, bewildered. He was 
still dazed. 

About him were hurrying men who 
looked at their watches, and walked with 
nervous haste. Messenger boys drifted 
in and out of the maze of traffic, with 

and trucks rolled up the street on one 
side and down the street on the other. 
Street cars clanged past; Smith knew 
that they were carrying busy men on 
their way to keep business appointments. 
He glanced up at the lines of telegraph 

to hear them hum with unseen messages 
. . . business messages. . . 

Everything spoke of business, the 
hideous monster that had ruined him, 
and that now threatened to engulf his 
family. It was as if the whole mystery 
of life, its madness, its futility, suddenly 
had been made clear to him. . . The 
corner on which he stood marked the in¬ 
tersection of two business thoroughfares 
in one of the largest business cities of 
the world. 

It was all for money! How he hated 
it—money I—the golden calf before 
which bowed down in idolatry an in- 

in his thought; but the utterance, 


struggling for articulation, c: 


le forth 


The kids would expect him at home 
shortly. A horrible humor lurked in 
the situation. The money he so despised 
was what he needed most. Well, he had 
made up his mind to get it! 

Prom his side pocket he drew forth the 
expensive cigar—Hoganson’a cigar. He 
looked at its rich coloring, its garish 
label. A smile curled his lips. He tore 
away the paper band, and ground it be¬ 
neath his heel, finding a savage pleasure 
in the childish performance. He had 
said he would keep the cigar, but would 
het It had been a senseless remark. . . 
theatrical! He would do better to crush 
it in his hands, as if it were Hoganson’s 
oily throat; or—happy thought!—mail 
it back to its abominable donor! 


But anger was past. Coolness was 
what he needed now. As for the cigar— 
By Heaven, he would smoke it! 

With the cynical humor of a defeated 
man, he touched a match to the weed 
and watched the smoke curl past its 
fiery tip. 


As he smoked, he mused, knocking the 
ash from his cigar onto a window-ledge 
of the tall building that braced his back. 
High up in the building were the offices 
of Martin Hoganson. . . who by night¬ 
fall would have ceased to exist. 

In his pocket there was left just 
enough to buy something he had thought 
he would never have occasion to use; 
something his wife was afraid to have 
around the house, because of the kids 
. . . They would expect him home 
shortly! 

He smiled at the little heap of ash on 
the window-ledge, and without framing 
the thought knew that it was significant 


of life. Then he hurled the cigar butt 
into the street and rapidly walked away. 

YXT'HEN Martin Hoganson left the 
' ' building, an hour later, a husky 
breeze was blowing. He turned up his 
collar, muttering suave imprecations. 
His mind still vaguely dwelt on the 
deadly whiteness of the man Smith’s 
face. 

“Damn him!” said Hoganson, as he 
moved toward the curb, “he almost 
threatened me. A fella like that is 
dangerous; he oughta be in jail. By 
God, if he knew I didn’t dare close him 
up, he’d make trouble. I’ll bet he’s 
scared stiff! He’ll get the coin some¬ 
where. I know these fellas; they can. 
always get coin somewhere, when they 
have to!” 

With this logical and pleasing thought, 
Martin Hoganson stepped off the curb¬ 
stone into the street. At the same in¬ 
stant a little puff of wind caught the 
heap of cigar ash on the window-ledge 
and scattered it. A fiake of inconsider¬ 
able size blew swiftly toward the street. 
It lodged in the money lender’s eye. 

With an oath, Hoganson drew a hand¬ 
kerchief from his pocket and applied it 
to the smarting member. He had taken, 
several steps into the road, but now he 
turned to retrace them. The handker¬ 
chief was still tightly pressed to his eye. 

“Look out!” shrieked a man’s voice, 
in sudden fear. . . and there came a 
grinding of brakes and the shriek of a 

Then something exploded in Martin 
Hoganson’a brain; and as the automobile 
came to a stop the watchers knew—if 
they gave it thought—that all the money 
in the world would not restore the breath 
of life to that lump of sudden clay. 


The Bloodstained Parasol 


A Study in Madness 
By JAMES RAVENSCROFT 


THE BLOODSTAINED PABASOL 


“Every possible care is given him and 
every famous specialist in the country 
bas examined him. They say it is use¬ 
less to hope; that he will be raving mad 
to the end of his days. When the fury 
seizes him he will hurl at his imaginary 
tormentors anything he can lift. That 
is why his room has nothing in it but a 
bed, and that is fastened to the floor with 
heavy cleats. The mattress, made ot 
material that resists his nails, is securely 
attached to steel slats riveted to the bed 
frame, and there is no covering. Blankets, 
spreads, pillows and sheets were given 

fighting the ‘dog.’ In the winter his 
room is kept so warm that covering is 

“His was accounted one of the bright¬ 
est minds at the medical college In which 
he was a professor. It was predicted that 
he would do great things in surgery. He 
was making a special research in the 
Held of vivisection. As he himself says, 
every time he can get some one to listen, 
that was the beginning of the hell. 

“He was engaged to marry one of the 
loveliest young women of his city. From 
what I was told, she was as lovely in 
spirit as she was in peron. The woman, 
it was said, was the real force that moved 
his work at such amazing strides. He was 
eager to give her of the very best of his 
energies and talents. 

“As a quiet and close observer of life, 
I am sometimes almost persuaded to be¬ 
lieve in fate. The story is that a whim 
possessed his fiancee to ‘go through' the 
medical college, just, I presume, as a 
whim possessed you to go through this 
place. She said nothing to him of her 
intention for she wanted to surprise him. 

“Two girl friends accompanied her, 
and together they explored. An attend¬ 
ant, who must have been exceedingly 
careless, was directing them, and at a 
certain place in their adventure fate 
willed, that he should be called elsewhere 
for a few minutes. In those few minutes 
a man was doomed to madness, a 

lives were made desolate. 

“nPHE place where the attendant left 
them was in a corridor by the lab¬ 
oratory where dissecting and other ex¬ 


perimental work was done. The doctor’s 
fiancee opened a door of the room and 
peeped in. At the opposite Bide a man 
with his back to her was working over 
some object. She at once recognized the 
familiar figure, and, as fate would have 
it, she was seized with the caprice to steal 
up behind him. Telling her companions 
who he was, and bidding them wait in 
the corridor for the attendant, she went 
in, softly closed the door and noiselessly 
tiptoed along the aisle between benches. 

“If there had been more light—but 
why say ‘if,’ other than if fate had not 
taken her there that day I Her lightly- 
slippered feet made no sound and she 
stood behind him unnoticed. He might 
have heard, but he was deeply engrossed 

“She tilted slightly on one foot to look 
past him at the object which so held his 
attention. She gazed a moment, and 
then, as though forgetting his presence, 
she sprang to his side. A dog was 
stretched on the dissecting board. How 
she discovered the fact is a mystery, un¬ 
less she saw with the inner and more 
penetrating vision, but she did see evi¬ 
dences of life in an animal that had 
been carefully prepared, by all the 
modern methods, as a subject for the 

“The doctor dropped his instrument 
and stood staring at her, speechless. Had 
she dropped from above he could not 
have been more amazed and startled. 

“ ‘It is alive 1’ the girl gasped. 

“ ‘Yes,’ he admitted. ‘You had 
better not look at it. Please come away. 
How did you get here I’ 

“The girl never moved nor took her 
eyes from him. 

of saving and preserving human life,’ 
he began to explain. No doubt a cold 
fear was creeping into his heart at the 
sight of her. ‘It is done in nearly all 
colleges and hospitals, you know. The 
animal is under a powerful anesthetic 
and does not feel pain.’ 

“A moment more she stood, so the tale 
goes, as though transfixed, and then— 

“‘You fiend, you coward!’ she 
screamed, as she struck him in the face 
with her parasol. She swung it with all 


her strength for a second blow and he 
threw up his hands to ward it off. There 
were red smears where he touched it, and 
when she saw them she flung the parasol 
from her and swooned. 

“Her companions, from where they 
were waiting in the corridor, heard the 
scream and the commotion, and rushed 
in just as the doctor was picking her up, 
and ran after him as he carried her to 
another room. He told them that she 
had fainted at the sight of the dissecting 
table. 

“It was a fatal day for the doctor. In 
his excitement he had forgotten to wipe 
his hands before he lifted the girl, and 
there were red finger marks on her white 
dress. Almost as soon as she revived 
she saw them, and swooned again. And 
when she again revived she began trying 
to tear off the dress, like she had lost her 
reason. One of her companions tele¬ 
phoned to her home and fresh clothes 
were brought. It was perhaps all of an 
hour later when, sick and too weak to 
walk, she was carried from the room to 
which the doctor had taken her. 

“That was the end. The doctor 
pleaded with the girl’s father and 
mother, but in vain. She never again 
permitted him to see her. She said she 
would as soon marry a murderer. Night 
after night he paced the sidewalk in 
front of her home, and went away only 
when the lateness of the hour and the 
vacancy of the street made him con¬ 
spicuous. 

“He gave up his college work, neglect¬ 
ed his personal appearance, and at last 
became like a haunted man. Many dark 
tales of what had happened were whisp¬ 
ered among friends and acquaintances 
of the two families. The girl became a 
nervous wreck and finally her people 
broke up their home and moved to a 

“Then something in the doctor’s brain 
cracked, and, well—you have seen for 
yourself.” 

He arose, a gentle reminder that he 
could not then spare me more of his time. 
As we shook hands in parting, he said: 

"Vivisection may, possibly, be of serv¬ 
ice to medical and surgical science, but it 
has nothing to do with love.” 


IIZZ1THE EYRIE 


© 


BIRD adventures, it seems, are ti 
the printed page. Life is full < 
quite often the unusual things 


strange events (wholly fictitious) that you encounter in 
WEIRD TALES. 

In our mall this morning are letters from persons who not 
only read WEIRD TALES—and enjoy reading it and tell 
us so—but who also can speak, from first-hand knowledge, 
of weird experiences. And they enjoy these, too, and like¬ 
wise write to tell us about them. 

We remarked last month, in this department, that almost 
everybody likes to read a weird tale occasionally. And 
now, after going through our morning mail, we feel urged 
to add that people also like to live them. 

Among these letters that we mention is one from Zahrah 
E. Preble of New York City, who recently joined the Hen- 
dricks-Hodge Archeological Expedition that journeyed to 
New Mexico for the purpose of digging into the prehistoric 
customs of an ancient people. Miss Preble is now with the 
expedition at Zuni, New Mexico, and from there she writes 


"My dear Mr. Baird: I am oonvineed that the 
Zunis are adepts at rain making. The sky had 
been oloudless until the old priests started to the 
Sacred Lake, 60 miles away. Then faint wisps be- 
gan to form into olouds. But no rain fell until 
day before yesterday, when the rain priests from 
Zuni came out to the saered spring in Ojo Oaliente, 
and met the returning pilgrims from the Sacred 
Lake. Here we were allowed to witness a most 
wonderfully impressive and reverent ceremony. I 
think we are perhaps the only white people, with 
the exception of Frank Hamilton Curbing and Mrs. 
Matilda Stevenson, who have ever been allowed to 
see this part of the ceremony. But our camp was 
given not only that privilege, but the one of taking 
motion pictures of it, so that the Museum of the 
American Indian, Heye Foundation, would have the 
record. Before we left the mountain side the rain 


“Yesterday the ceremony was augmented by the 
mere spectacular and better-known 'Rain Dance,’ 
in Zuni. It ie a beautiful and solemn performance. 
Rain fell last night in oopious quantities. Today 
it is raining as I write this, and the music of the 
waters is drumming on my tent fly. I say that the 
Znnis are great rain makers, and that Faith is the 
keynote of their ability! 

“to far, I have been too busy absorbing new 
sights and sounds to do mnoh writing, but, if the 


“There is an interesting historical tale of the 
murder of Father Latrado, right in front of the old 
Spanish Mission church, in 1670, which is one of the 
most piotnresque parts of the Hawikuh ruins. 
Psrhaps I oan reconstruct that soene sufficiently 
weirdly to make a good yam for you. I will keep 
it in mind.” 


Those of our readers who are intrigued by the occult— 
and we believe that many of them are—will probably be 
interested in the next letter, which comes from F. A. Ells- 
Over of San Diego, California: 

“Dear Friend: I fully realise that the death of 
Captain Buokman (in the accompanying story) is 
seemingly far from logical. Not that I believe, 
personally, that it is possible; yet some oocultista 
concede the actuality of such phenomena. 

“I obtained the idea for this weird climax in an 
oooult paper the name of which I have forgotten— 
it is so long ago—but I could not forget the article. 

It was an account of a materializing seance, at 
which a well known medium was successfully evok¬ 
ing physical manifestations of the dead. Closely 
watched, he could plainly be seen in his cabinet; 
and the phantasm of a dear departed male was 
taking form. 

“In tile group was a young, impetuous fellow 
who had never before dabbled in that sort of thing 
—and he was soared stiff. The thing bad beoome 
substance, objectively, now, and it ambled slowly 
toward ths young man. 

“It came closer. The boy’s hair stood straight 
up. The thing brushed his sleeve as it passed, 
sending strange shivers up his spine. With a yell, 
he laahed out with a mean left to the phantom's 
right eye; then oloaad with it, wrestling. The 
thing disintegrated in his arms. He fainted. But— 

“The next day the medium was very sick and 
used up. And his right eye was blaok as blaok 
can he I 

‘ 1 That is the artiole. I oan’t vouoh for its truth; 
but it la as near as I oan remember a true account 
of the piece I read years ago in that occult paper. 
Evidently the medium had materialized his own 
Astral body, and the blow refleoted in his physical 
shell. Science claims that the witohes of old used 
this same process. 

"At any rats, dear Ed. (coincidence, the abbre¬ 
viation of your name and occupation are the 
same!) I send this in for what it is worth. 

They say nothing is Impossible, and who sabes the 


THE EYRIE 


your glasses t 'home—you MIGHT consider this 
story for pub. 

“N. B.—Anyway, you started something when 
your msgazine made its first appearance. At least 
with me. Man, it’s a whangdoodle—that’s what it 
is! I bought your first issue through ouriosity; 

I’ve purchased the following ones by design. . . 

Ton don’t need my good luck wishes. All who have 
read my copies (I pass them around to my friends) 
have become fans.” 

Still another letter concerning eerie things in real life 
comes from Curtis F. Day, of 38 Browning Road, Somerville, 
Mass., and here it is: 

“My Dear Mr. Baird: I have just been reading 
your second issue of WEIRD TALES. It’s just 
the kind of magazine I hoped would start some¬ 
time. I think it fascinatingly interesting. 

"One of the most weird experiences that a man 
or woman can have is that of being buried alive. 

I have been greatly Interested in this matter and 
have collected a deal of material along this line. 
Would not a department of authentic cases of living 
burial interest your readers? I have talked with 
two people who were buried alive, but were rescued 
in time and the account of their hallucinations and 
feelings is about as weird as anything I ever read 
in Poe or any of the older writers. I also have the 
facts in many other cases.” 

And Catherine H. Griggs, of 69 Randolph Avenue, Water- 
bury, Conn., dwells, in her letter to us, on both the afore¬ 
mentioned subjects. This is what she has to say: 

“My Dear Mr. Baird: WEIRD TALES seems 
to fill a much needed place in modern fiction, al¬ 
ready overrun with detective stories, or those of 
the ‘confession’ type. If you keep your magazine 
to its present policy it should be a great success. 

The contents of the first number are most pleasing 
and show better literary quality than the average 
short story. . . 

"May I, as an admiring reader, venture a sugges¬ 
tion—if it seems practical? As a member of the 
Society for Psychic Research, I happen to know 
that they have many really absorbing short stories, 
oublished in the monthly Journal, told in the first 
ereon by the individual who had the experience. 

* do not know what legal red tape surrounds such 
matters, but, if possible, I think it would be inter¬ 
esting to have just one such story in each issue of 
WEIRD TALES, quoted directly from the Society 
for Psychic Research. . . 

“In the November, 1918, issue, for instance, I 
wrote an account of how my mother and aunt 
seemed to see a ghost in an old hotel in Vienna. 
Later they learned that the hotel had been the resi¬ 
dence of the Dukes of Wnrtemberg, and their 
rooms were part of the private suite; and the old 
gentleman seen by my aunt was identified by her 
from the likeness of a portrait statue on the stairs. 

She had not seen the statue before she saw the old 


'II?E take it that all our readers enjoyed Paul Ellsworth 
' ' Triem’s thrilling serial, “The Evening Wolves,” which 
we published in our last two issues; and, assuming that you 
will likewise be interested in what he has to say about us, 
also about weird fiction in general, we have pleasure in 
quoting this letter from him: 

"Dear Mr. Baird: I intended to send you this 
story last week, but some trade paper business came 
up that had to be covered at once. At any rate, 
here it is now. If you like it and want more, better 
let me know as soon as convenient. 

“We—the Triem family—have just been giving 
the second number of WEIRD TALES a thorough 
reading, and I want to congratulate you on it. In 
some ways we are the typical American family. 

We want everything in a story—thrills, plausibility, 
convincingness, live characters and a concrete and 
effective background. Of course, not all of the 
stories in the magazine achieved all of these impos¬ 
sibilities, but a surprising number did. We read 
aloud, and that is a more severe test than reading 
silently. I think we were particularly surprised at 
the number of first-class stories you had secured 
from little known writers. 

“And the theory back of WEIRD TALES is 
scientifically sound. Ninety-nine people out of one 
hundred in America today are suffering from 
balked dispositions—inhibitions—suppressions. We 
are cave men, but this disease of civilization has 
been too much for us. We want to go out and 
knock down our dinner with a stone hammer, and 
instead we have to go to the cafeteria and carry a 
tray. Strong emotional situations are as necessary 
to us as sunshine and fresh air; and the only place 
we can get them is in our reading. Of late years 
the silly publishers have decreed that we may not 
even have this solace—and now comes Weird. May 
it live long, and prosper!” 

Equally interesting is the letter from H. P. Lovecraft, 
another master of the weird tale, from whom we have 
accepted some stories for your entertainment. Mr. Love- 
craft’s letter, unlike Mr. Triem’s, doesn’t exactly flatter 
WEIRD TALES, but we are nevertheless glad to pass it 
on to you: 

“My Dear Sir: Having a habit of writing weird, 
macabre, and fantastic stories for my own amuse¬ 
ment, I have lately been simultaneously hounded 
by nearly a dozen well-meaning friends into decid¬ 
ing to submit a few of these Gothic horrors to your 
newly-founded periodical. The decision is herewith 
carried out. Enclosed are five tales written between 
1917 and 1923. 

“ Of these the first two are probably the best. If 
they be unsatisfactory, the rest need not be read. 

. . ‘The Statement of Randolph Carter’ is, in the 
main, an actual dream experienced on the night of 
December 21-22, 1919; the oharaoters being myself 
(Randolph Carter) and my friend, Samuel Love- 


ADVERTISEMENT 


THE EYRIE 


man, the poet and editor of ‘Twenty-one Letters of 
Ambrose Bierce.’ 

"I have no idea that these things will be found 
suitable, for I pay no attention to the demands of 
commercial writing. My object is such pleasure as 
I can obtain from the creation of certain bizarre 
pictures, situations, or atmospheric effects; and the 
only reader I hold in mind is myself. 

“My models are invariably the older writers, 
especially Poe, who has been my favorite literary 
figure since early childhood. Should any miracle 
impel you to consider the publication of my tales, I 
have but one condition to offer; and that is that no 
excisions be made. If the tale can not be printed 
as written, down to the very last semicolon and 
comma, it must gracefully accept rejection. Ex¬ 
cision by editors is probably one reason why no liv¬ 
ing American author has a real prose style. . . But 
I am probably safe, for my MSS. are not likely to 
win your consideration. ‘Dagon’ has been rejected 

by-, to whioh I sent it under external 

impulsion—much as I am sending you the enclosed. 

This magazine sent me a beautifully tinted and 
commendably impersonal rejection slip. . . 

“I like WEIRD TALES very much, though I 
have seen only the April number. Most of the stor¬ 
ies, of course, are more or less commercial—or 
should I say conventional?—in technique, bnt they 
all have an enjoyable angle. ‘Beyond the Door,’ 
by Panl Suter, seems to me the most truly touched 
with the elusive quality of original genius—though 
‘A Square of Canvas,’ by Anthony M. Rud, would 
be a close second if not so reminiscent in denoue¬ 
ment of Balzac’s ‘Le Chef d’Ouvre inconnu’—as 
I recall it across a lapse of years, without a copy 
at hand. However, one doesn’t expect a very deep 
thrill in this sophisticated and tradesman-minded 
age. Arthur Machen is the only living man I know 
of who can stir truly profound and spiritual hor- 

Despite the foregoing, or because of it, we are using some 
of Mr. Lovecraft’s unusual stories, and you will find his 
“Dagon” in the next issue of WEIRD TALES. 

A ND now let us turn from these letters from authors and 
consider those from our readers. Here’s one concern¬ 
ing last month’s issue that impresses us quite favorably: 

“Dear Mr. Baird: Long live WEIRD TALES! 

A more enjoyable magazine I have yet to find. And 
as I read about eight fiction magazines monthly, 
this, in a way, is something of a compliment. I just 
started reading your spooky book last month, but 
I am loud in praise and heartily wish you unpar¬ 
alleled success. 

“I finished the July-August number last night, 
and I thought that ‘The Room of the Black Velvet 
Drapes’ and ‘Mandrake’ to be the best. In ‘The 
Outcasts’ I found nothing weird, or anything else 
that would distinguish it from any other pieoe of 
fiction. ‘Shades' and also ‘The Corpse on the Third 


Slab' were very good, but I hesitate to read any of 
these stories late at night. 

“I found ‘The Moon Terror’ one of the most fas¬ 
cinating stories I ever read. Also, ‘The Man the 
Law Forgot.’ 

“I see there is quite a heated discussion going on 
as to the size of your magazine, so I’ll cast my vote, 
also. I like it large, because you don’t have to be 
turning pages all the time. 

“Well, doubtless you are thinking this is enough 
criticism for one letter, so I will close, again wish¬ 
ing you a great sucoeas. ’ ’—Just Another Weird One. 

been discussing here of late—namely, the popular fondness 

"Dear Sir: I have read, with a great deal of 
interest, the first two copies of your new maga¬ 
zine, WEIRD TALES, and must say that I am de¬ 
lighted that there is, at last, such a magazine on 
the market. I have always had a great tendency 
toward reading stories of this sort, and Edgar Allan 
Poe is my favorite author, but Anthony M. Rud 
may soon take his place. 

“I have often wondered why there were so very 
few stories in the ourrent magazines dealing in 
dlls subject and can not understand why they 
never accepted them, bnt I think you have made a 
great stride in the literature of our day by publish¬ 
ing a magazine devoted to ‘horrors.’ If I am not 
mistaken, the public really likes to read something 
that appeals to their imagination; something they 
can not understand, and I do not doubt that the 
‘Unique Magazine’ will give them all they want 
of this in the future. But, according to my mind, 
its success will depend largely on VARIETY, and 
your discernment, so far, is faultless in this respect. 

I am looking forward to reading the next issue with 
great impatience. Indeed, I wish it was a weekly 
instead of a monthly periodical.”—Charles White, 

52 St. John Street, Quebec City, Canada. 

“Dear Sir; I would like to say just a word in 
appreciation of your unique publication, WEIRD 
TALES. I believe you have, in this magazine, sat¬ 
isfied a popular craving for fiction that is different 
and out of the ordinary, especially enjoyed by peo¬ 
ple possessed of a bit of imagination. Personally, 

I have enjoyed WEIRD TALES more than any 
fiction magazine I have ever read. 

“And by the way, I haven't seen many letters in 
your ‘Eyrie’ from the rest of my sex. Bnt just 
because you haven’t received as many letters of 
appreciation from the women as from the men, 
don’t think that we don’t enjoy Poe’s type of liter- 
ature as well as they.”—Maxine Worthington, 
Lincoln, Nebraska. 

A ND here are some excerpts—we really haven’t space for 
more—clipped from another batch: 

“Dear Mr. Baird: I, too, must add a word cf 
commendation to the man who has courage enough 


ADVERTISEMENT 


Discovers New WayToTeach 
Salesmanship 
in 20 Weeks! 


it is possible for a 


glgSSHs 

ionstration t Meihod S has y been 


THE EYRIE 


to edit a magazine dealing ao largely in stories of 
psychic phenomena, . , For years I have read and 
Studied everything obtainable en matters eeoult 
and regretted the lack of a good fiction magazine 
filled with such tales. Enclosed please find 25c for 
a copy of the back number containing ‘The Dead 
Man’s Tale,' Isn’t that the story you oonsider the 
masterpiece of weird stories?”—Pearl Bratton, 
2615 Y Itreet, Sacramento, California, 

"Dear Sir: Let me compliment you on your 
magazine, WEIRD TALES. Since the very first 
issue, I have not missed a story. I take it to bed 
about midnight and read the most bloodthirsty 
one I can find just to get a ‘Bek.’ 'The Olcsed 
Cabinet’ is, in my opinion, the most powerful hor¬ 
ror story you have published. It was superbly 
written, and with the atmosphere, setting and all, 
made a typical weird tale. ‘The Ghest Guard’ by 
Irvine was a crackerjack of a yarn. The serial you 
are running now attracts me a great deal. I am 
sure that any reader who has an appetite for ex¬ 
travaganza will find just what he wants in that 
serial. ., Wishing yen all sucoess for DETECTIVE 
TALES and WEIRD TALES."—Dick P. Teoker, 
Library Apartments, Minneapolis, Minnesota. 

“Dear Sir: Both my husband and I read every 
story and enjoyed every one. We particularly 
liked ‘Fear’ and the ‘The Grave, 1 and the ethers 
whioh were not too far beyond the bounds of prob¬ 
ability, ‘The Dead Man’s Tale’ was very thrilling. 

. . You certainly told the truth when yon said that 
people like to read this sort of fiction, ’ and we are 
glad that you have not hesitated to become a pio¬ 
neer, as it were, in presenting to the public a maga¬ 
zine that is fearless enough to feature such unusual 
stories. . . Here’s to success for WEIRD TALES 1” 
—Mrs. E. L. Depew, 1235 Hyde St,, San Francisco. 

“Dear Editor: The yams by Rud, Qraigie and 
Wright were certainly good thrilling stories. ‘The 
Soar,’ by Carl Ramus, ‘The Bodymaster,’ by Harold 
Ward, and ‘The Forty Jars,’ by Bay MoGillivray 
were exceptionally good. ‘The Dead Man’s Tale,’ 
by Willard E. Hawkins, ‘The Ape Man,’ by James 
B. M. Clark, Jr., and ‘The Experiment of Dr. Calf 
Oalgroni,’ by Faus and Wooding were well-con¬ 
structed horror yarns.”—John James Arthur, Jr., 
Oak Grove Farm, Coleman, Texas. 

“Gentlemen: I am enclosing twenty-five cents 
for which please scud me a oopy flf the first issue 
of WEIRD TALES. That is the only issue I have 
missed. Believe me, I’m pot going t# miss any 
more! Your magazine is great. Please print some 
scientific stories. ‘The Moon Terror’ was great. 
Get more like that. . . Please rush me the copy as 
fast as you oan. If necessary, mark it ‘Via Air 
Mail.’ ’’—William Moesel, 80 Broadway, New York 
City. 


“Dear Sir: I lived seven years in a really haunt¬ 
ed house, No fake about it, Some queer happen¬ 
ings. Same pretty hard to believe, but we lived 
there and knew them. I even had my arms about 
the creature one night, You oan laugh! It was 
rather a shuddery remembrance afterward.”—V. 
Van Blascom Parke, Arlington Heights, Mass. 

"Gentlemen: I have enjoyed reading the first 
issue of your magazine, and I am quite delighted 
to find it so uniquely uniform in tone, and so uni¬ 
formly unique in its escape from certain useless 
conventions by which most periodicals of the all- 
fiction type are governed.”—0. D, Bradley, 5830 
East Seventeenth Street, Oakland, California, 

“Dear Mr. Baird: I wish to say here that I am 
highly in favor of WEIRD TALES, I appreciate 
its merits, and wish to oo-aperate in whatever way 
possible to establish its suoeess, There is absolutely 
no other magazine like it on the market, and it fills 
a great need. The public owes you a vote of thanks 
for placing before them such an excellent and 
needed magasine. WEIRD TALES indeed has a 
very bright future, ’ ’—R. Lin wood Lancaster, P. 0. 
Box 687, Raleigh, North Carolina, 

“My Dear Mr. Baird: I preferred ’The Moon 
Terror’ to all the other stories, but they were all 
good with few exceptions. Some of the stories do 
not live up to the name, ‘weird.’ Is it possible to 
procure the find two issues, March and April? If 
so, what Is the eost? If you haven’t them, perhaps 
some reader would like to sell them.”—H. Cusick, 
2392 Valentine Avenue, New York City. 

"Dear Sir: I have just read the first eopy of 
WEIRD TALES that I ever saw. While walking 
down Market Street a few dayB ago I passed a book 
store deeply engrossed in a subject quite foreign 
to the grotesque. The title of your magasine gripped 
my attention to such an extent that I stopped auto¬ 
matically after having gone a half dozen yards. 
Standing there momentarily, WEIRD TALEB drove 
the other topic away and framed itself vividly in 
my mind’s eye, and I retraced my steps and bought 
the copy. You have certainly put forth a fetching 
title, and, it seems to me, already laid the founda¬ 
tion for a financial snocess, comparable in a short 
tone to that of The Saturday Evening Post.”—V. 

H. Bethel], 718 Howard Street, San Franoisoo. 

We could go pn and fill several more pages with enthusias¬ 
tic letters from our happy readers, for we’ve scores of such 
letters here; but we shall have to forego that pleasure and 
use an inch or so more of wood pulp paper to remind you 
that frosty evenings approach, with tlip long winter eve¬ 
nings coming close behind, and that means yon will have 
more time for reading WEIRD TALES. Anticipating this, 
we are preparing a bountiful feast of fiction fpr eur Autumn 
and Winter numbers. We expeot to make these numbers 
better than any we have thus far published. 

THE EDITOR. 


ADVERTISEMENT 85 

“Yes! We Have No Bananas!” 


The Black Patch 


(Continued from page IS) 

ry the horrid thought that I had driven fears. I had di 


sn to his death my ov 


Then, filled with forebodings as to the 
identity of the body over whieh I had 
stumbled earlier in the night, I started 
to return. When I reached the house it 

courage to enter. Onee inside, however, 
I gained confidence and hastened up- 

The body was gone from the hall. But 
in the small room at one end—a mere 
closet—I found what I was looking for: 
the body of the man who had fallen in 
the struggle in the night—evidently he 
had dragged himself thither. His heart 
was still beating, and I carried him down 
stairs. He was heavy, and I groaned with 
relief as the weight slipped from my 
arms to the floor. 

Then I looked at the face. Never shall 
I forget it. 

It was my host! The black patch was 
displaced. It had covered a perfectly 

T MUST have swooned at the sight, for 
-*■ the next I knew there were many 
men about me. They came from the 
village and had been notified by the old 

I was taken into custody and lodged 
for three weary hours in a ridiculously 
small place they called a “lock-up.” At 
the end of that time I was led before a 
magistrate who took my statement. 

Next morning I was informed that the 
body of David Warren had been found 
in the ravine. It confirmed my worst 


_ Good Luck and Happiness 

1 fre5e ^ 


WANTED! Get $1600 to $2300 a Year 


That day the authorities obtained a 
confession from the man who had worn 
the black patch. He was unknown to 
them and stated that his name was Doug¬ 
lass. For about three months he had 
been employed by David Warren as an 
assistant in laboratory work. Having 
opened by mistake the first letter from 
our solicitor, Douglass learned of the 
legacy and kept my cousin in ignorance 
of it. 

For two months he had confined David 
Warren under circumstances of the 
greatest cruelty in the little elosot at 
the end of the hall. He insured the 
silence of the old negress by threats of 
death. 

How Warren escaped from his room 
Douglass could not say. He suspected 
that the negress finally had dared to 
unlock the door. In any event, my cou¬ 
sin met Douglass in the dark just as the 
latter stepped from my room after his 
futile attempt to steal the gold. Then 
ensued the struggle in the hallway that 
I had heard and in which Warren 
stabbed the impostor with a knife—a 
wound that later resulted in the death 
of the criminal. 

Although aware that we had never 
seen our Canadian cousin, Douglass wore 
the black patch fearing that we might 
know that David Warren had lost an eye. 

After the inquest I hurried, shaken 
and trembling, to the hotel and packed 
the stolen Gladstone which had been 
found and returned to me. Then, feel¬ 
ing that I had a sufficiently vivid im¬ 
pression of America, I purchased a draft 
with the gold aud started on the long 
journey home. 


BLACK MAGIC 

(Continued from page 34j 
Horrible as was the drama of Gilles 
de Laval, the same horrors recur 
throughout the history of the Middle 
Ages, wherever Black Magic is found. 

Gilles de Laval, with Prelati and 
Side, was found guilty by the court 
and burned alive in the pre de la Mag- 
deline, near Nantes; he obtained per¬ 
mission to go tb the execution with all 
the pageantry that had accompanied 
him during life, as if he wished to in¬ 
volve in the ignominy of his downfall 
the ostentation and cupidity by which 
he had been so utterly degraded and 
lost. 


ADVERTISEMENT 


the Great Shops of Coyne 


W! 


-E PAY YOUR RAILROAD FARE TO CHICAGO—the ElectricaTCenterof the World-; 
from any place in the United States. Grasp this opportunity to see the country at ouij 
expense. Don’t stick in one spot—travel—get experience. Come to Coyne—the largest- 
electrical school in the country specializing in elettrical instruction only. Learn electricity ini 
[3 months. Fit yourself for a big paying job. Gejt a complete training so you can make big 
Imoney as Power Plant Operator, Superintendent, Telephone man. Construction worker, autoj 
Itruck or tractor electrician, battery man, radio expert, or you can go'into business for yourself 
as electrical contractor, dealer, auto ignition or battery expert and make from $3,000 to $20,000) 
a year. Hundreds of our graduates today are making big money and you can do the same if] 
[you grasp this opportunity—act now., ' 1 ' ' -- ■■ - 

Radio Course FREE 

We include the following free with the regular course: 

111 A complete course in auto, truck and tractor electricBy> 
and storage batteries. Greatest outlay of auto, electrical 


Fit Yourself for a Big) 
Paying Job 


2) Course in Radio; the xnaTvel of the age. Constructing, instal¬ 
ling and operating. Build your own wireless telephone set. 

!ahandretu^P ^hirth^tra^ln* 1 at* 


Send Coupon Today! 

Don’t delay a minute: send that coupon right now lor our; 
big free catalog and full particulars of Free Railroad Fare] 
offer. Remember this special offer is limited so act now,; 


1300-1310 W. Harrison St., Dept. 13-96Chicago^ 1JI^ 


B. W. COOKE, Pres. 

Coyne Electrical School _ 
1300-1310 W. Harrison St.. Dept. 13-98 Chiracs 
Dear Sin Please send me free your bte catalog and 
full [Mirdculars of your special offer of Free Railroad 


ADVERTISEMENT 


gngsmsfii 


THE CASE OF DR. JOHN¬ 
STONE 

(Continued from page 25j 
“It can’t be done," he whispered. 
“Neither the apparatus or the elements 
of which it is composed can be replaced. 
I'll not go into details, bnt it can’t be 

Then we talked a while. The conver¬ 
sation I shall not record. It was purely 
personal and had to do with matters that 
he wished me to attend to. Finally he 

‘ * Thanks, old man, and good-by I ’ ’ and 
he extended a hairy paw. "I am going 
now to solve another riddle,” and he 
stole out of the fateful room, leaving me 
alone with his body and—the ape. 

'T’HE next day, in several New York 
papers, the following news item ap- 

“Monkey Soares Automobilists 
“While R. J. Farley was riding 
with Mrs. Farley and Mr. and Mrs. 

B, M. Greene on the North Shore 
road yesterday, they almost ran over 
a large monkey or ape that sudden¬ 
ly appeared in front of their car. 
Mr. Farley states that the animal 
acted as if it wanted to be run over. 
Mr. Farley stopped his car just in 
rime, and the animal ran off. It was 
probably the same monkey that was 
later found drowned in the lake on 
the estate of G. L. Hirt, a Wall 
street broker.” 

Several days after this item appeared 
two eminent alienists oommitted Dr. Rob¬ 
ert Belmore Johnstone to an asylum for 
the insane. Both of these gentlemen 
knew him, and after they had signed the 
commitment papers, one of them, a large 
gentleman who always spoke in a large 
way, remarked to me, “A very peculiar 
case, Doctor I—a very peculiar case. I 
really cannot understand it. Even if 
the psychosis has been of sudden develop¬ 
ment, it is most hisarre and entirely dif¬ 
ferent from any that I have ever seen. 
It would seem as if the man’e brain had 
been changed into that of a beast—a 
simian, I would say.” 

I held my peace. He never knew how 
close to the truth he came. 

Now, when I hear, as I heard only the 
other day, that the soul, the individual¬ 
ity, is nothing more than the sum of the 
reactions of the ductless glands—that the 
ego can be resolved into a chemical for¬ 
mula, I turn away; for I know differ¬ 
ently. 


SUNFIRE 

(Continued from page 58 ) 
trio, lay also dead, her withered remains 
sealed up in a crypt of the pyramid. 

But Ama-Hotu, Lord of Day, has been 
worshiped in many lands. Invariably has 
he survived his worshipers; outlived a 
multitude of fellow-gods as well. The 
empty shrine of Huae, the drying seg¬ 
ments of Corya, made no difference at 
all in the glory of Ama-Hotu. 

Four hard-working humans had re¬ 
treated before his potency. In one of 
the ancient pyramidal dwellings they lay 
about in pajamas, sweated, drowsed, and 
waited for the undisputed Lord of Day 
to go seek his victims elsewhere. 

All morning they had been at work 
taking the measurements, photographs 
and notes which were to make the name 
of Widdiup famous. Sigsbee, however, 
was not among the toilers. The gray 
hydro-airplane was missing from the 
derelict fleet. 

“Miss Enid's pyramid,” yawned 
Waring after a time, “was a wonderful 
find!” 

No one disputed this. He redistributed 
his mass to a more comfortable posture. 

“We never had a chance, you know. 
First to last—not the ghost of one!” 

Otway looked up with a flash of philo¬ 
sophic gray eyes behind the shell-rims. 

“I am entirely willing,” he said, “to 
surrender all the honors to Dr. Wid¬ 
diup’s memory.” 

“Of course you are! So’ra I willing 
to surrender writing it up. TNT was will¬ 
ing —we all were—to surrender the dia¬ 
monds stored in the pyramid’s crypts. 
Benefit of starving Armenian orphans. 
Splendid idea. Girl with eyes like hers, 
bound to think of it. Sig is willing to 
surrender himself. That is, if she ’ll have 
him. Ex-actly! First to last—not a 
chance 1” 

“The treacherous spirit of Kuyam- 
bira-Petro,” began Tellifer—and for the 
first known time in his life broke off as 
if for leek of ideas to continue. 

“Quite right,” approved his friend. 
“Treacherous cannibal wiaard, not worth 
mentioning. Half-ton diamond cut to 
broil you alive—easy. Pyramids—mon¬ 
sters—night-hags—burning pita—got a 
chanoe with all of ’em. But a girl like 
Miss Enid—never 1 Oh, Lawdy, Lawdy 1 
The penalty of being fat and forty! De¬ 
clined with thanks for the air-trip. Yet 
I've flown and Sig hasn’t. What’s your 
trouble, John B.l” 

“I was just thinking, sir, that maybe 
I might have tried a little harder to get 
her to take me. Before the War, after I 
quit the Buffalo Bill show, I used to 
make exhibition flights in a little old 
Antoinette I got off a flyer that brokB 


ADVERTISEMENT 


WANTED- 

fox* murder! 


' l 


>1,000 Reward 

TN a dirty, forlorn shade by the river’s edge they found the mut3ated body of Genevieve Martin. Her pretty face 
I was swollen and distorted. Maries on the slender throat showed that the girl had been brutally choked to death. 
Who had committed this ghastly crime? No one had seen the girl and her assailant enter the cottage. No one 


tla they ide 
es of the fat 

Learn die Secrets of Identification — 

Mors and mete the detection pf crime resolves itself into a problem 

< identificatior You can I mthemethodsof famous Identification 

FREE 


L Who had committed this ghastly crime? _.. 
nsd seen the murderer depart. How could he uc uruu^ui. 
Crimea like this have been solved-are being solved ever 
the papere of their exploits, hear of the mysteries they e 
Finger Print Experts axe always in the thick of the «ei 

Not Experienced Detectives 
Just Ordinary Men 

Course in 
Secret Service 


For a limited time, we are making a special offer of a 
PROFESSIONAL FINGER PRINT OUTFIT absolutely 
free and FREE Course in Secret Service Intelligence. 


• brilliant career for you. 

This coupon win bring you FI 

of this meat offer. Don't wait_ 

Fired. Fill in the coupon now. Mail it today. 

University of Applied Science 

1«® fcaayalde Ave. De*. 93-96. CUeago, I 


tU the offer hi 


Pnivera rty of Appli«d_8d«noa, D ept, w-% 


Pimples 


his neck in it I had a good deal of ex¬ 
perience. Mr. Sigsbee means well, but I 
can’t see what real good he could be in 
case of accident.” 

“With her airplane and selected cap¬ 
tive, she will arrive in Manaos,” spoke 
Tellifer, the prophet. ‘ ‘ I know that she 
will, for she is a very wise and practical 
person: she refused to take me! Dr. 
Otway, I presume you alao are among 
the declined-with-regrets?” 

“I am not” The philosophic eyes 
twinkled again. “In the first place, 
there was only one of us who deserved 
to he chosen. And in the second, I had 
already engaged myself to collect this 
material for the Widdiup book. But at 
least, if we are not helping her to make 
. a flight, we are saving her the need of 
risking another one back here. And the 
honor of that is something!” 

“It is much,” agreed Waring, very 
meekly. 

THE END 

AUTHOR’S NOTE.-When the booh 
to be entitled ‘‘Recent Discoveries Point¬ 
ing to Confirmation of the Theory of 
Egyptian Origin for South American 
Aborigines,” collated from material 
gathered on the spot by four faithful 
captives, and accredited to the posthum¬ 
ous fame of Dr. Alexander Widdiup, is 
published, it will be a worthy tome of 
great interest to archaeologists. But I 
doubt if in its pages will appear the in¬ 
cidents of this tale. 

The surrender of Alcot Waring was 
honorably adhered to. On his return to 
New York he sadly reported, "No mu- 

Young Mr. Sigsbee has not had leisure 
to tell a word of it. He is devotedly en¬ 
gaged in keeping up with the inherited 
disposition of Dr. Alexander Widdiup —■ 
an exciting occupation which suits him 
perfectly. 

Mr. Theron Nardsse Tellifer is far too 
proudly impractical to commit his weird 
thoughts and adventures to the cold, def¬ 
inite keeping of paper and printer’s ink. 

But John B. is a very good friend of 
mine—and John B. told it all to met 


THE TALISMAN 

(Continued from page 63) 
Imagine, then, my disappointment 
when in the morning I thrust my hand 
into the pocket to find it empty. 

“Mitsu San,” I turned to the amah 
who was ordering my room, “you must 
remember that Japanese charm I had 
all these days.” And proceeded to de¬ 
scribe it. “Maybe you have seen it or 
perhaps it fell out when you were 
brushing that dress? I have lost it and 
want to see it again very much.” 


"Wak arimasen (I don't under¬ 
stand),” she replied indifferently, and 
I turned angrily away. When a Jap¬ 
anese suddenly fails to understand 
English it is a certain sign he or she 
does not wish to understand. 

Yet after my coffee I decided to use 
all patience and diplomacy I could lay 
claim to and interview Mitsu San once 
again. I somehow felt sure die knew 
more than she wanted to tell. But 
when I glanced, in passing, through the 
window I beheld Mitsu San hurrying 
down the Bluff toward the water-front 
Decidedly luck was against me. 

But I would not acknowledge myself 
beaten. The charm was in my pocket 
yesterday. For the matter of that, it 
had been there all these days, brushing 
or no brushing. I knew Japanese serv¬ 
ants rarely if ever take anything be¬ 
longing to a foreigner. Maybe the 
charm had been dropped somewhere on 
the premises and I might still be able 


I did a bit of quick thinking. Then 
I went downstairs for a talk with the 
owner of our boarding-house. 

“Mrs. Brown,” I began, “I have lost 

“In my house? Impossiblef” ex¬ 
claimed that good lady with a great 
show of horror. 

I hastened to reassure her. 

“It was just a wooden Japanese 
keep-sake of no value whatever to any 
one but myself. It has been mislaid 
entirely through my fault. I beg to 
note this and not lay the blame on 
servants. Yet I want to recover it very 
badly and am prepared to offer a money 
reward to the person who brings it to 
me whole—or broken.” 

“This is very unusual,” replied the 
flustered Mrs. Brown, “I shall ring for 
the housekeeper. She may be able to 

Soon the housekeeper, a very matter, 
of-fact Scotch woman, appeared. I 
repeated to her what I had said to Mrs. 

“Are you speaking of that wooden 
chip you Bhowed your friends the other 
day!” she inquired. I hastened to 

“Why, I have seen it half an hour 
ago in the servants’ quarters,” she said. 

I felt a surge of excitement shoot 
through me. 

“Mitsu San was just wrapping it up 
in a piece of white paper when I hap¬ 
pened to enter her room. I recognized 
it at once, but thought you had given 
it to her to throw away. For you see 
it was broken clean through the mid¬ 
dle.” 


ADVERTISEMENT 


Copy This Sketch 


AM anxious to find men with desire 


ness picking up everywhere many 
thousands of draftsmen will be needed 
at salaries ranging up to $3000 and 
$3600 per year. 

In asking you to copy this sketch I 
believe I will be able to tell from the 
sketch you send in what kind of an 
opportunity you will have in this great 


oendingln your eketch. Whitt l'wadt to know 
» how much you are interested In drawing 
and your sketch will t«U ma that. 


us boys and nu 
ire wanted by I 


FREE — 

$90 Drafting Course 

To every student enrolling now * 


FREE — 

Drafting Outfit 


Draftsmans Pock* 
Rule Free ; 2Z&3SZJ 


n going to mail free and prepaid 
•ine Pocket Rule shown hero , ri lls v 

sful Draftama 


t a draftsman, if you think you have or 

_ _« abOity, ait down *- J --— 

ie to you inm mailing It to ma today, writing yo 
_ end n Sag address and your •« plainly on the 
you are InS Um^thTdrm 

Salaries Up to 


^1«& t 5nTten^yiS , ;5» 

“ per month, which ought to be filled by (HIM 
n, are vacant everywhere. I want to find the 

with practical training —*-—“ 

he qualified to 611 tt 
to share in tr- 


FREE thI ^ 2 ? Dra ? s| 5 ^ 0 ’* 

rKGF 

Chief Draftsman, Engineers* Equipment Co., pfc 1 uSTcl 


I know that this Is the time to get ready. That ia why I 

those students a guarantee to give them by mail prac¬ 
tical drawing room training until they are placed in a 
-- —it-- -;.h * salary up to $250 and $300 per 

tsssS^JSts^&^s 

*-■ **■- — -ou aro ready .to 
n. So write to mo 

MaU Your 
Drawing at Once 

— and Get an foorine FwaaI 
Pocket Rate Absolutely 

I In drafting hurrrt Don't 
tu ptg intothis great 

SaTfeyif l & S «51S>i» 


ADVERTISEMENT 


PAT 

the ENEMY that is shortening Your life 

BANISHED! 

« DISSOLVING THE VEAST CELLS THAT MAKE 
ALCOHOL DISTILLERY OF YOUR STOMACH 

The fat in yOur body is caused ■ 
by a simple chemical process. ■ 

Yeast cells in your stomach R 

fcSESsar 01 ^ 

NO DIET-NOBATHS-NO EXERCISE/ 

•tripttaL tao^L 8 NOTTROlSI' I 

ai«sg& l wMBg - 

FREE #T“" ... 

R. Lincoln Grahan 

Wfj r-z 

SEND NO MONEV-SEND ONLY THIS COUPON 

riUtasae maHthtacoiipon only, to my sanitarium. I will send you two full w.-ks’ treatment 


THE GORILLA 

(Continued from page 61 j 
breaking open the door. Involuntarily 
I drew back from the horrible sight that 
met my gaze. 

Sprawled on the floor lay the body of 
my friend. Tightly clutched in his right 
hand was the automatic I had laid on 
the chiffonier. His head lay in a dark 
pool of blood, that still trickled from a 
jagged tom hole in the throat! 

“My God, sir! Look!” my servant 
gasped, pointing with shaking Anger 
toward the window. 

Jerking my eyes from the gruesome 
sight at my feet I looked toward the 
window. 

A repulsive horror gripped at my vi¬ 
tals as I gazed at the thing that lay on 
the floor beneath the window. With blood 
trickling from its mouth lay the body of 
a huge gorilla! As the light shone on 
the misshapen head it revealed a long 
sear that ran from the comer of the 
mouth straight back over the left ear. 


BOY ELECTROCUTED TRYING TO 
“SAVE” KITE 

T RYING to save the kite that had 
cost him so many home of hard 
labor, cost the life of a small, 11-year- 
old barefoot boy in Harlem. The kite 
became entangled in some electric 
wires. The lad climbed a telegraph 
pole to release it, and in so doing his 
shoulder came in contact with an elec¬ 
tric cable carrying 11,000 volts. He 
fell to the street. Still conscious, a 
piece of the kite tail clutched in his 
hands, be was taken to a hospital. One 
hour later he died. 


ATOM CAUSES HUNDRED DEATHS 

A speck of dust, no bigger than a 
pinpoint, resulted in the death of 
one hundred persons in Kreiensen, Ger¬ 
many, not long ago. 

Flying into his eye, the particle of 
dust temporarily blinded the locomo¬ 
tive engineer of the Hamburg-Huncie 
express, as he was passing the signal 
post, causing his train to crash into a 
suburban train, standing at the station. 
Demolishment of both trains was 
frightful._ 


POSTAL SERVICE CLAIMS 
“SPEED” RECORD 
TV yfTSS BERTHA SALTSGAVER, of 
■LVT Bellaire, Ohio, has just received a 
postcard from Atlantic City, N. J. 
There would be nothing unusual in this 
were it not for the fact that the card 
was mailed on July 20, 1908, and had 
been just a little over fifteen years in 
reaching its destination. 


HblciRav 


. SL S 

QU S 

HWH 

sigggjss 

W free Book 

gg^SSSl 

SSST^^S 

a "V.r r “‘7SL‘- u - 

mw. 


S®a»axW| 


ADVERTISEMENT 


^lCQoinOne 

Day 


New Invention sweeping 

country like wildfire 

N~